what i would also call for , however , is to look beyond immediate concerns in biarritz .
we , as elected representatives , are at least as responsible for encouraging it to make progress in the face of adversity as we are for relaying the messages that we receive from public opinion in each of our countries .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , ladies and gentlemen , thank you for your kind accolade and thank you also to those who have gently reproached me for not making this speech earlier .
we must work on closer cooperation and make it simpler and more effective in order to bring this about : closer cooperation is the immediate , simplest way forward if we are to take that additional step towards integration , the need for which has been confirmed by the many powerful speeches which i have heard today .
it is known that in france , for instance , the figure for tax receipts varies according to whether you use the statistics of the direction générale de la comptabilité publique or those of the comptabilité nationale .
a policy which worked towards the rational , efficient and safe organisation of transport ought to prioritise investment in the european public rail service rather than confining itself to standardising the conditions of competition between road transporters , that are principally concerned with maximising their private profits .
the report supports the council 's and commission 's approach and emphasises that a number of regulatory measures need to be introduced , namely on pensions , cross-border prospectuses and a community patent .
mr president , i voted in favour of this charter , not least because of the influence which our colleague , ingo friedrich , and professor herzog have exerted on its content .
this charter lags some way behind the european convention on human rights , and behind national conventions or treaties .
( a5-0244 / 2000 ) by mr wiersma on the slovak republic ( com ( 1999 ) 511 - c5-0034 / 2000 - 1997 / 2173 ( cos ) ) ;
much of our debate about fears about enlargement is based on exaggeration , but in order to confront the populists who exaggerate , we must connect with popular politics through reflection .
sixthly , we believe it has been a mistake to link enlargement in practice with the prior integration of these countries into nato .
i do not want to allow any backlogs to build up here , as has happened in other areas of foreign aid over a number of years .
and i can tell you why ; because these people wanted to be on the right side once and for all , i.e. securely anchored in the family of democratic nations .
this issue requires a special effort and , in my view , cannot be dealt with purely as a problem on the fringe of the issue of the accession of lithuania and poland .
what is important to me - and my colleagues in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy supported me here - is that the copenhagen criteria , which the czechs have also acknowledged , should continue to apply and i should like the czechs themselves to review their own legal system , if necessary page by page , in order to ascertain if there are any laws which are discriminatory .
now for the good news , because this actually eclipses the bad news .
this issue needs to be addressed seriously but within a broader framework that covers not just hungary but also the other candidate countries that still operate this antiquated and relatively unsafe technology .
in romania the government , with the active support of commissioner verheugen , the world bank and the united nations , have given us an opportunity to establish good doctrines and best practice in the region .
this is a candidate country where a third of the territory has since 1974 been occupied by the turkish army and where , because of a particularly impervious line of demarcation , the fundamental principles of the european union cannot be applied across all of the territory .
technologically too , there are still discrepancies between east and west : there are four internet connections per one thousand inhabitants over there , as opposed to sixteen over here .
in that situation , west germany backed the former gdr financially on a massive scale , by no less than dm 150 billion annually .
the next few years in eastern europe might well see the depopulation of rural villages and the large-scale purchase of agricultural land for mechanised production-intensive farms .
we are building a compendium of directives and regulations on matters wholly germane to health , such as pollution , emissions of radioactive and other dangerous substances , waste disposal , water , air , soil quality , food safety and novel foods and product liability .
this is not the most opportune moment for it to focus on foreign policy and the interchanges between the different parties could become heated and exploitative .
in splitting the body of eu law in two , the level of integration achieved by the present member states could be guaranteed and cooperation could be further enhanced .
i visited romania at the end of july to see at first hand the workings of one of the largest orphanages which is in northern romania .
cyprus has close links with the people of the eastern mediterranean and integrating the island will heighten the union ' s profile in this vital area .
i support the view of the rapporteur that malta should be admitted to membership in the first tranche of enlargement and that negotiations should be completed by the end of 2001 .
in this context , it is a question of rousing public opinion in favour of enlargement .
we can use romania to lend weight to our argument when seeking to impress on our citizens that it is in our interests to stabilise europe .
if , however , the universally-acknowledged constructive stand of the cypriot government notwithstanding , this proves to be impossible due to unwavering refusal on the turkish side , then i believe that the european union should not allow the integration of cyprus to be held hostage to turkish intransigence and that , on the contrary , it should immediately accept the republic of cyprus as a member of the union pending integration of the island as a whole at a later date , as happened with one of the founder members , the anniversary of the unification of which we are celebrating here today .
many of these instances of poisoning or cases in which heavy metals were dispersed occurred before there was sufficient environmental awareness and before it was known what the effects would be .
that is why the ppe-de group advocates effective controls , and we echo the rapporteur ' s call for the food safety auditors in the commission to be able to conduct unannounced on-the-spot inspections in close and constructive cooperation with the inspectorates of the member states .
residual poison , pollution , poor animal husbandry and poor hygiene will result sooner or later in sick animals and , consequently , also in an increase in illnesses among human beings .
these directives are part of the most radical shake-up of the community 's food safety hygiene rules for at least 25 years .
the farmer must obviously be compensated for the destruction of a batch of feed that is so contaminated that it is unfit for use , just as in the case , for example , of the destruction of animals with tse .
this has already been done for dioxins and pcbs and it can be expected that this scientific risk assessment will become available , as i said , in october .
this proposal is the follow-up to one of my first commitments to improve food safety and provides for a system to exchange information in the field of animal nutrition , with particular reference to a rapid alert system and a legal basis to enable the adoption of safeguards measures for products produced within the community and also the obligation for the member states to have in place contingency plans to deal with feed emergencies .
the compound-feed industry , however , has been trying yet again to exert influence through the council and to overturn the principle of open declarations .
we need a white list of the additives and ingredients that are authorised for use in feed mixes .
i believe , too , that transparency will ultimately strengthen competition ; it stands to reason that transparent competition creates a greater incentive to manufacture the best possible mixes .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , after the issue of the composition of feedingstuffs for animals , if we are to eliminate mercury , lead , arsenic , ddt , etc . , we must address the question of the way in which these products are marketed .
when we vote on these paragraphs , i shall ask if there are any objections to inserting them after paragraph 1 .
paragraph 65 is another example of brussels ' s desire to dominate and unify , stating that the non-discrimination clause provided for in article 13 of the ec treaty is part of the ' acquis communautaire ' and insisting that " legislation derived from this article be fully implemented in the ceecs " .
the opposite approach would drive a wedge through the farming community and endanger the social development of rural areas throughout europe .
regarded for far too long as the prime battleground for neighbouring aggressors , who always saw the annexation of poland as the first stop on their expansionist itinerary , the unwilling arena for one of the most abhorrent tragedies in history , and subsequently left for decades to oppression by a totalitarian regime which , encouraged by our culpable silence , thought that it could finally quash poland ' s legendary spirit of resistance , poland has never ceased to demonstrate forcefully the values of freedom , courage and independence , all those shared values that form the foundation stone on which our construction of a political europe is supposed to stand .
if the czech republic continues to make progress and the european union adjusts its institutional structure and policies in order to cope with enlargement i can see no reason why the czech republic should not be admitted to the union .
if bulgaria continues to make progress and the european union adjusts its institutional structure and policies in order to cope with enlargement i can see no reason why bulgaria should not be admitted to the union .
it raises the issue of the return of the refugees and the repatriation of the settlers .
we hope that the perspective of early membership of the eu and the easing of contacts by means of " bottom-up " communal projects that the eu promised to promote and finance can give a positive impetus to the solution of the " cyprus question " .
deliberate violations of health , criminal and even moral codes by doctoring the laws of nature and tampering with animal species and animal physiology are conducted without being subject to any surveillance or appropriate regulations or any justified penalties .
in view of the past , in view of the current economic relations between the developed major powers and the poor countries of asia , speaking of ' equal partners ' for the future is , at best , a pious hope , and , more probably , a means of concealing exploitative relations behind pseudo-democratic and pseudo-humanitarian phrases .
the exception of a difference in treatment which may be made on ideological or religious grounds or for reasons of age must bring together the law which protects certain public and private organisations with scrupulous respect for the principle of equal treatment .
regarding the specifics of the report , i would like to thank mr mann who took on board most of the comments from the committee on industry , particularly those concerning multiple discrimination - as in the case of women , who are the target of other discrimination .
we are therefore extremely confused regarding this point , and we call upon the commission to ensure , when monitoring the ways that the funding is used , that turkey is not merely pretending to wipe out or combat more minor forms of discrimination without making any effort at all to fight that basic discrimination which , when all is said and done , is at the root of a great many of europe 's misfortunes .
managerial and executive staff will give corporate shape to this belief .
the aim of this work , based on article 13 , is to make equality of opportunity a reality by removing that smiling face that so often cloaks prejudice and bigotry , predominantly in the workplace .
article 5 , as it currently stands , has been criticised for seeming to justify what it aims to combat .
in general terms , i agree with the emphasis placed on the development and growth of cultural tools to fight discrimination : in my opinion , we must combat discrimination with a culture of non-discrimination , making up-to-the-minute , accessible information available to all the citizens of all the member states .
i welcome this directive as the first-ever eu law introducing europe-wide rights for our 37 million disabled citizens , an end to the back-door route to legislate for disability rights and a tribute to the disability movement which has campaigned for this day .
that is what differentiates some benches from others .
the civilisation we share asserts its greatness through respect for the rules of an open , tolerant and liberal society , with its inclusive and multicultural dynamics .
furthermore non-eu countries are queuing up to associate themselves with the code .
that is also why it opposed those of the amendments tabled by our fellow members in order to demand planet-wide general disarmament , with the european union to set the example .
the proliferation of light weapons remains disconcerting , even close to home , in the balkans , for example .
such areas would be pinpointed by applying criteria for defining this added value in terms of creating rankings and exclusion .
but to date there had not necessarily been any form of ranking or factors dictating exclusion .
lastly , i would like to reply to mr piétrasanta , who i thank for his intervention and constructive intent .
if the commission has no instruments to influence levels of excise taxes in member states , and if favouring certain industries is not allowed under the competition rules , surely where a region suffers special disadvantages because of peripherality and remoteness , it would only be a case of equalising matters , not of giving any special preference if there was some differential in excise taxes permitted in those special and particular circumstances ?
i will answer the questions from mr sacrédeus and mrs theorin on the same subject together .
i wonder if the matter has been shunted backwards and forwards between different eu commissioners without anyone in the end taking real responsibility for the issue .
the professional hunters ' association would play an important role in ensuring that the hunters have the qualifications to make such a judgment .
concerning france , the commission is waiting to be informed about the actions taken by the competent authorities regarding some of the recommendations of the fvo mission report , especially of the action taken to ensure that route plans are properly used and signed .
i join with the honourable member in expressing my admiration of aung san suu kyi and her fellow members of the nld .
i hope that we will be able to continue to provide humanitarian assistance to them , but obviously what is most important - this would encourage them to return from bangladesh and from other countries in the region - what is most important is that there should be a political settlement which recognises those rights as well as the rights of those who were democratically elected over ten years ago and whose election was swept aside by the generals .
the technology and expertise that is available should be used for something constructive in society , something that will benefit people rather than something that is going to annihilate and destroy people .
the supervisory mechanism must above all be extended to the light , small calibre arms used in a great many regional and ethnic conflicts throughout the world , which are often turned against the civil and military personnel of eu countries .
while our committee welcomes the broad gist of the commission 's proposal , my report presents a number of changes which must be made in order to make the proposed separation of powers work .
result : the new director may come from the outside , but he immediately finds himself ensnared in a system that is already firmly established .
in our view , there is one note of discord in the report , although this is not the view of the entire group , and that is the question : should internal control only be set up in respect of the commission , the council and parliament , or should it also extend to smaller institutions ?
mr president , i should like to begin by congratulating mr van hulten on this very thorough report , which has deservedly received the unanimous support of the other members of the committee on budgetary control .
i would also like to point out that article 22 , paragraph 2 of the directive explicitly specifies that all the member states must take appropriate measures to ensure that broadcasts by television broadcasters do not include any programmes which might impair the physical , mental or moral development of minors , in particular programmes that contain pornography or gratuitous violence .
technical measures to control television offerings cannot resolve these problems .
mr president , commissioner , our children access and use televised , printed and new media on a daily basis and as a matter of course .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , one sunday evening a fortnight ago in the south of france , johan , aged 17 , and robert , aged 16 , murdered their childhood friend , romain , with a firearm and a baseball bat , for no reason or motive , just like on tv .
children will very quickly learn to manipulate these filtering systems better than ourselves .
i therefore hope that , this time , a solution will be found once and for all , so that mobility throughout the european union - of students , young persons undergoing training , young volunteers , teachers and trainers - will become one of the crowning glories of the european union , putting paid to that paradox whereby it is easier for goods , capital or services to move within the european union than it is for the citizens themselves .
i lament the fact that , as a consequence , young people are prevented from gaining experience - study , work or other experience - in another member state .
universities that do not comply , however , must forfeit their subsidies .
at leipzig on 6 july , you issued a call for a vision for the future of europe , based on a draft constitution .
i would like to congratulate the president of the commission on his speech and i welcome his authoritative mention , in this chamber yesterday , of the role , collegial nature and managerial capacity of the commission .
lastly , we must provide the countries and peoples of south-east europe with the hope that they will be able to penetrate the institutional bounds of the union .
péry spoke of the importance of reconciling work with family life .
instead of addressing everyone , we compartmentalise : minority after minority , ethnic group after ethnic group .
i was the rapporteur in peking and the co-rapporteur in new york .
on other words , we need a breakdown of the indicators applied , detailed statistics comparing the situation in the member states , an analysis of cultural differences in the various european societies and an indication of the factors which act as disincentives to the developments we are seeking and to the development of a european nationality for women which , as we can see on a daily basis , for example from the recent referendum in denmark , is a sector which we need to address .
mr president , i would like to thank both mrs péry and commissioner diamantopoulou for being here today .
i should like , once again , to thank mrs dybkjær for the excellent , in-depth work contained in her report , which will be most useful to us in our next report , and i should like especially to thank the french presidency and mrs péry for being so pro-active on the issue of equality during their presidency .
three of them - amendments nos 4 , 5 and 7 , referred to the commitology procedure .
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , as the rapporteur pointed out , accepted that approach , and therefore decided not to re-introduce the amendments .
this is more than a symbol ; it is a reason , a driving force , for belonging to the european culture and model we are proclaiming .
mr president , i was prompted to vote for the cashman report by the words of the chairman of the pensioners ' association of the municipality where i live - curno , in the district of bergamo , italy - who said to me , ' we have absolutely no way of safeguarding the interests of the elderly .
one could not help but wonder if common sense had always prevailed in the drafting of certain , no doubt well-meaning , proposed amendments that were now before us .
" thanks to the action taken by a " whistle blower " and the committee of wise men , corruption has been brought out into the open .
report angelilli ( a5-0258 / 2000 )
under the provisions of article 22b ( 2 ) of the ' television without frontiers ' directive ( directive 97 / 36 / ec of 30 june 1997 , amending directive 89 / 552 / ec ) , the commission was required to conduct an inquiry into the advantages and possible disadvantages of measures designed to facilitate control by parents and educationalists over the programmes minors can watch .
any further analysis of specific technology such as filtering systems will have to take account of the advances in technology which are evident today .
therefore , i think that if the european institutions and the european parliament help the peruvian people at this difficult time , we could contribute to the stability of the country and to the consolidation of democratic institutions across latin america .
in order to avert a disaster , it is absolutely crucial that europe takes its politics to the american sub-continent as well .
b5-0789 / 2000 , by mrs schroedter and others , on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance , on the situation in afghanistan ;
in other words , the conflict is far more complex , there is no solution in the offing and yet , as we all agree , there is an urgent need for one .
so peace , stability and respect for rights can only be re-established through a political solution .
other members have already spoken of a million displaced people , a million people mutilated by landmines , thousands of women deprived of their most basic rights , such as the right to education , health , work , or to move around freely : it must be terrible for many of these women , who are accustomed to education , to a secular way of life , to be confined to that area with no freedom .
as long as the taliban leadership continues to be as ambiguous in its statements on opium cultivation as it has been hitherto , the commission refuses to support any anti-drugs projects in afghanistan .
b5-0779 / 2000 , by mr dupuis and others , on behalf of the technical group of independent members , on macedonia ;
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , my group proposes to support the present motion , which we have also signed , because i believe it is right for the european union to support the solution that has been found in macedonia and which accommodates the albanian population .
b5-0791 / 2000 , by mr korakas and others , on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left , on the sinking of the vessel ' express samina ' .
in deference to the house ' s decision the other day , we sat round the table and thrashed out a joint text which , i admit , was only made possible by the cooperation and good faith of all the groups .
in the cut-throat world of tendering , all too often companies can be pushed into cost-cutting measures and i would not like to see safety measures being sacrificed .
the victory has been won , although the regime has made and continues to make huge efforts to forestall it .
in another incident which i witnessed with my own eyes , an ambulance driver was shot in the foot from a ten centimetre range as he was trying to come to the rescue of some people . the most shocking of all is the fact that the israeli police and the army used fragmentation bullets .
such a situation requires tact .
once again , there is confusion between , on the one hand , a democratic state doing its best to deal with an extremely difficult situation and , on the other , the institution at the heart of palestine which , under provocation certainly , immediately takes up arms to shoot at the israeli forces of order .
that was the latest at 17.53 hours .
especially with regard to the committee of inquiry , i would like to stress the fact that it should be an internationally constituted committee of enquiry and that its competences must be clearly delineated .
having spoken fine words yesterday and having granted this guarantee today , the european union cannot afford to arrive in belgrade empty-handed tomorrow .
i should like the european parliament to take note of these violations and , of course , to call for repeat elections in himara .
madam president , there are more victims of eta , but there are also more victims of the spanish repression : more arrests , more people tortured , new dispersals of political prisoners jailed in the basque country .
personally , i was not able to intervene to condemn these actions in that it concerned members of my own party who have always been political targets , and my involvement would therefore have appeared exploitative .
before going any further , i should like to congratulate mrs van lancker , and also the committee on employment and social affairs , and its chairman , on the report before us today , which testifies to the dynamism and great commitment of the european parliament to the social agenda .
in its communication , the commission has found a framework for the social agenda which i think admirably reflects the spirit of the lisbon summit .
social quality cannot be achieved free and gratis .
i am saying this so that no mysterious or technical procedures cause this to be misunderstood , for no less than seven different amendments in the same spirit have been tabled .
in this area , as in many others , it is essential for public authorities to exercise true pluralism in selecting their associates .
equal access and full enjoyment of social rights for women and men , which would mean ensuring that the legislation is applied in the social sphere in terms of maternity leave , maternity protection , working time , employment contracts , etc .
mr president , i think it would be a great shame if nicole péry were not also to seize the opportunity to state her opinion now that she is here , so that we might hear her points of view , too .
in future we must remember that there are national aid schemes , in respect of internal competition , for example , which are especially important and valuable in countries with low population densities and where distances are long .
against this background , you have reworked a communication on services of general interest and set out the legal situation once again .
mr heartfelt thanks to mrs riis-jørgensen for her valuable contribution as rapporteur of the xxixth report on competition policy .
the next item is the report ( a5-0195 / 2000 ) by mrs klass , on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation , on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 68 / 193 / eec on the marketing of material for the vegetative propagation of the vine [ com ( 2000 ) 59 - c5-0090 / 2000 - 200 / 0036 ( cns ) ] .
this is a clear indication that the european parliament would , indirectly , give the green light to gmo experiments in the field of vine propagation or improvement .
we have reason to believe that the new or updated terms of the proposed directive offer a satisfactory response to the expectations of workers in the vine nursery and wine-growing sector and that they should contribute towards improving the quality of the proposed material and make it easier for the competent authorities to supervise the movement of vine cuttings and plants carried out by the institutions responsible for this .
while the commission appears to be overcome with combined gmo and cloning fever , mrs klass goes further and goes into convulsions , compounding the gmo issue with all the genotypes she sees all around her .
lastly , we can accept amendment no 27 , tabled by both mr lavarra and mr garot .
madam president , i see from item 13 of the minutes , entitled ' communication of the announcement of the removal of mr le pen from office ' , that you presumed to speak on behalf of parliament , and that the chairman of the committee on legal affairs presumed to speak on behalf of that committee .
as to the igc , i believe that work at ministerial level had already progressed as far as it could before biarritz , and this informal council thus came at the just the right time to consolidate certain advances and to lay down guidelines for the final phase of the work , on which we have now embarked .
the european union has honoured its commitments and responded to this political turnaround at the meeting of the general affairs council on 9 october , at which it decided to lift the sanctions , including the oil and air embargoes , imposed on the federal republic of yugoslavia in 1998 , with the exception of course of sanctions directly aimed at mr milosevic and his entourage .
it is the first european union document that the citizens can consult without feeling completely alienated from its content .
in any event , madam president , i believe that biarritz has contributed something very positive , and that is the unanimous approval of the charter .
as a result , we negotiated on an a minima basis and we have a minimal charter , particularly as regards social rights .
the dramatic developments in the middle east have of course caused a huge backlash and emotions among the european public and here in parliament have inevitably run high in the wake of the violence of the past few days and the large number of victims - and rightly so .
i gather that the document was well-received at biarritz and that it can be adopted following a number of legal clarifications and subject to an official declaration at the summit in nice , to be incorporated at a later stage in the treaties .
oral question to the commission ( b5-0543 / 2000 ) pursuant to rule 42 of the rules of procedure , by mr napolitano , on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs , on article 158 of the ec treaty concerning island status .
hence , it will not be easy to say that everything is going ahead just as if the fifteen member states were involved , if you will forgive me belabouring such an obvious point .
as for the idea you suggested of introducing this debate into the igc , frankly , mr segni , it seems to me that , taking account of the scope and difficulty of the other subjects on the agenda of this intergovernmental conference , it would be more appropriate to rectify the text according to the procedures laid down by the vienna convention on the law of treaties , as in previous cases of clerical errors in the articles of treaties , in order to standardise the different language versions of this article quite precisely .
on the other hand , it must not constitute a barrier to trade or precipitate splits in the common market , breaks in the links of solidarity and cohesion between the member states or , as commissioner barnier has said , an unravelling of the community acquis .
i shall now do what i can to convince my fellow countrymen to run with the ball during sweden ' s presidency .
the arguments against and the warnings about a multi-speed europe , are still ringing in my ears .
firstly , with regard to the method , which is a tired , lifeless procedure according to public opinion , which in fact marginalises the other institutions of the european union and in which governments are victims of their own labyrinth .
mr president , we have heard that progress was made at biarritz on closer cooperation .
i concede , however , that the political situation has not been conducive to going that far and i therefore give my unreserved support to the duhamel report currently before us .
mr president , as the last speaker , i too should like to congratulate mr duhamel on his excellent work and mr gil-robles on his work .
we therefore want the matter re-referred to ourselves .
mr president , i voted for the souchet report which is intended to further facilitate the process of turning agricultural products into packaged agricultural products .
this is because it confirms the possibility of turning traditional vines into gmo vines and therefore the possibility that , in the future , we will be drinking genetically modified wine .
it is proposed to allow material for the vegetative propagation of the vine which meets reduced specifications to be marketed when temporary difficulties arise without , however , specifying what these difficulties might be .
the reason is that mr smith ' s pension contributions are low whereas the amount paid by mr rossi is very high .
we find the constant pressures and concomitant institutional measures , such as the proposed state aid register and scoreboard , unacceptable .
countermeasures must be taken against this at every political level ; i.e. at local , regional , national , and i hardly need mention , at european level .
following the happy outcome of the elections in serbia , we are , however , now obliged to support serbia with financial aid and not just with fine words and grand proclamations .
the proposal i am asking you to support by voting in favour of the report is the result of a long process and fulfils an aspiration that has been held by parliament almost since its inception .
i hope that the budget discussions can continue in the same vein so that we can come up with a budget for the financial year 2001 that equips us with the resources to meet the priorities and challenges that await the european union .
concerning the cutback of eur 225 million in the field of rural development , the council ' s position is a response to the cumulative lags in national rural development plans .
we must practise what we preach to the member states , and it is bringing all these strands together that makes budgetary policy so exciting , as all those who are involved would testify .
the question as to whether the necessary measures can be carved from the previous package for the mediterranean programme , is a political and not a technical issue .
anyone who maintains that part of its job would be to block mergers or halt globalisation , does so for purely polemical reasons .
the committee on fisheries , which shares with the commission the principle of budgetary stringency , has accepted the limits set by the latter in its preliminary draft and has indicated its concerns in certain budget headings .
the european commission struggled to come to terms with the extension of priorities , and this has led to unacceptable gaps in the implementation of commitments which were made under pressure of ever larger budgets for support to foreign aid and cooperation operations .
however , of course this also means coming clean with the tax payer and those who listen to us , on a whole range of points , so as to give them a realistic picture of the conditions we work under .
it is possible to make substantial savings , either by saving the monies arising from the under implementation of certain programmes , or by the european union ' s at last taking a decision to stop using budget lines for the purposes of pro-europe propaganda .
the tax burden must therefore be reduced in percentage terms , and only an economic upturn and accompanying economic growth will secure increased state revenue .
the needs are self-evident , we have many commitments , the importance of external cooperation in asserting the european union ' s presence on the world stage is obvious , and there is a very low implementation rate for various programmes .
we reckon we have more scientific evidence than your guess at a figure .
the ' small countries ' , for example , to use a quite inappropriate term , should not feel themselves excluded from reinforced cooperation or that reinforced cooperation means some sort of exclusive vanguard , centre of gravity or pioneer group .
i therefore think it was quite appropriate , in this context , to ask an external authority , that was not morally implicated , to undertake this task .
many of us believe that the problems in colombia , as in other latin american countries , stem from the issue of whether or not peasant-farmers own land .
the creation of a tobin tax is an attractive option , one championed by many members on both the left and right wing , by a variety of political and non-political organisations , non-governmental organisations , university groups .
therefore , they sometimes cannot distinguish the president-in-office of the council from a militant .
the basic question i would like an answer to , and i am speaking as an all-round figure which includes my militant persona , is what are the conditions necessary for it to work .
mrs isler béguin will pardon me if i do not wish to go into great detail in response to a debate on bse which has a justifiable place in this house after entering into a debate on the tobin tax .
mr president , the council really has surpassed itself in its proposed draft budget 2001 .
having said this , and also taking into account that the commission itself has admitted that for 2001 applications from member states for payments for the structural funds exceed the predictions of the pdb by eur 8 000 million , i think that it is now time for the council to start considering very seriously that we should do something about payments and not increase the backlog of payments .
until this point has been clarified and discussed in detail , i flatly refuse to speak about any revision of the financial perspective .
i am confident that our untiring work will win the full approval of the european parliament and the council .
more specifically , the commission ' s position on the amendments contained in the paciotti report is as follows .
the azores , the canaries , guadeloupe , french guiana , madeira , martinique and réunion form a separate category whose uniqueness has now been recognised by the treaty of amsterdam on the basis of an innovative concept : they are defined as ' outermost regions ' .
we hope that the commission will carry out this timetable or programme and , above all , we hope that the great institution that the commission currently has , the interdepartmental group , will remain in contact with the outermost regions , informing the central authorities of our needs and our specific problems .
in fact , what we say here today and how we vote tomorrow will be front-page news in the seven outermost regions , and the news reports on the regional television channels will report extensively on what we say and decide here .
owing to permanent unfavourable factors the special status accorded remote regions and the special assistance they should receive are justified , although differences should not be evened out by means of permanently defined versions of internal market rules and permanent entitlement to structural funding .
for this they need specific treatment , which is expressed through a will for durability in the series of measures .
earlier , mr pohjamo , you yourself mentioned this anxiety , echoing the work and the commitment of mr sanchez , and let me at this point ask you to convey our wishes for a speedy recovery to him , given his current health problems .
such was the case with the company that manufactured polio vaccines in the united kingdom using bovine foetal serum , prohibited since 1999 , and with the distribution via a french agri-foodstuffs distribution chain of one thousand kilos of meat from herds contaminated with bse .
a reliable legislative framework , the definition of acceptable risk and the practical safeguarding of local food and production diversities are aspects which still require attention , together with those of small and medium-sized businesses and the training of their employees .
there is an indissoluble relationship between eating healthily and eating well , a relationship of which consumers must be made more aware in order to promote quality and support the typical local products which are one of the great assets of the peoples of europe .
therefore , as mihail papayannakis said , we too are going to approve and support the report .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the white paper on food safety has laid a firm basis for better food in future and i am also hopeful of more environmentally-friendly and people-friendly production of food .
other people 's experience and findings can be pooled with our own , and findings can be assessed at pan-european level .
we have scientific committees advising the commission .
several proposals are already before the council and parliament : for example , the package of proposals recasting and updating the hygiene legislation .
we have adopted a flexible , coordinating approach rather than a rigid , centralising one .
the commissioner for external relations has previously recognised that the commission 's external aid programmes have been an embarrassment .
mrs bonino and mr patten are right in saying that it makes obvious sense to destroy the stockpiles , because the cost of destroying a stockpiled mine is only a hundredth of that of destroying one which has been transported to a place where it is difficult to find .
many victims are small children , who suffer terrible trauma and appalling mutilation , and whose lives are destroyed before they have even started properly .
the criticisms , however , are sanctimonious and based on ignorance .
over and above the legal quibbling on all sides , the biarritz summit has confirmed that the process of european enlargement is a matter of laborious haggling .
the portuguese socialist meps voted for the duhamel report on the constitutionalisation of the treaties essentially because they agree with the need for the european union to simplify and organise the fundamental texts that govern it , which today have become virtually unreadable on account of the complexity introduced by the successive accumulation of treaties .
while desirable in itself , a constitution of this kind could only be adopted as the crowning touch to far-reaching institutional reform .
i would even have voted against it , but this would have been an over-radical way of judging a text as important as this .
everyone here knows that europe , its currency , its diplomacy , its security , its civilisation , its culture and its social model can only truly survive the splendid history of its peoples , but also the fruitless dissension between them , by becoming a federation of nation states with strong , coherent and respected institutions , enshrined in a european constitution , towards which mr duhamel has paved the way .
the europe of brussels , with its mania for levelling out and standardising , has acted unfairly and even stupidly towards our compatriots who live according to european values thousands of kilometres away from paris , madrid or lisbon .
the same applies to line b3-306 for the prince information campaign .
report ( a5-0270 / 2000 ) by mr moreira da silva , on behalf of the committee on environment , public health and consumer policy , on the commission communication on eu policies and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions : towards a european climate change programme ( eccp ) [ com ( 2000 ) 0088 - c5-0192 / 2000 - 2000 / 2103 ( cos ) ]
instead of controlling the erratic movements of capital , the priority is ' structural reforms ' actually aimed at privatising and deregulating anything still left to be privatised and deregulated .
haug report ( a5-0300 / 2000 )
it is interesting to note that the eu parties are clearly incapable of inducing either their member parties or the individual members of the member parties to pay a fee for membership of the eu party . instead , we are forced to finance the eu parties with public funds .
what ' unbundled access to the local loop ' actually does is force public operators to put the leasing of public telephone lines out to commercial tender as soon as possible .
but , precisely because we are dealing with the local loop , customers ' interests need to be taken into particular account .
the quotas and the thresholds are like scylla and charybdis and to change them is to jump out of the frying pan into the fire .
since it appears from appendix iii that glasshouse horticulture does not benefit from the proposed subsidy scheme for vegetables and fruit , i am putting my objections on hold for the time being .
it is only three years since the kyoto conference and the european environmental agency estimates that , if emissions in the eu continue at present rates , instead of an 8 % reduction in emissions of co2 between 1990-2010 , there will be a 6 % increase , while in the usa the outlook is even worse .
we also need to define a more specific framework for research , standardising tests and cooperation between various scientific teams so that reliable results can be achieved .
samples are actually sufficient .
this morning the euro sank to an all-time low .
today the average fee for transferring eur 100 to another country in the internal market is eur 17.10 , many times more than the fees for domestic transfers .
the sme is not a multinational in miniature , any more than it suffices to extrapolate the difficulties of a small business quantitatively to get a proper grasp of the problems of large units .
today , i would particularly like to make a case for systematically eliminating as many as possible , if not all , barriers which stand in the way of establishing the internal market , and for optimising the competitiveness of smes , allowing them to develop in a dynamic and sustained manner .
our greatest potential for adaptation resides in them .
in parallel , we propose to introduce a european innovation area , and i am grateful to mrs montfort for having agreed to include that proposal in her report .
we endorse the attention which the rapporteur , mrs montfort , is paying - rightly so - to small and medium-sized businesses , and micro-enterprises , as well as to granting priority support to young fledgling entrepreneurs .
my contact there is magister leitner , and if i come across a problem related to support programmes or a problem with the european institutions , then i can tell my employers that there is someone there who is competent and in the know , someone who can give information in the shortest possible time about public calls for tender , support programmes or research on infrastructure .
that is why we should make it our business to bring down tax rates as far as possible by introducing less hefty laws , slimmed-down benchmarking and best practices so as to create a simple and well-ordered environment for our businesses .
the tighter the borders we attempt to create , the more insane forms of refugee smuggling we shall see .
the people are , of course , hopeful of better political representation but at present , many people still live in fear ; fear of all kinds of things , fear of the outbursts of violence which flare up now and again .
there are jobs in greece , for example , which , if the albanian immigrants leave , will remain undone , mainly in the agricultural sector .
at present , there is a heavy stream of refugees returning which the lack of security , law and order is actually impeding .
all this and the unacceptable events in himara give us cause , i think , to make a very careful assessment of just how able and willing albania is to take on the accepted european criteria in the areas of human rights and democratic freedoms and , by extension , to modulate and adjust our general approach , our action plans and the various benefits which we provide this country accordingly until such time it revises its policy .
indeed , we had a very earnest and also very self-critical debate about the quality of european lawmaking and the application of the principle of subsidiarity .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i would first and foremost like to thank the rapporteur , mr wuermeling for the work he has invested in his report .
if it is a guarantor and not a master , it immediately follows that in the structure created by mr wuermeling , under which powers would be devolved to the member states in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity , what should subsequently be guaranteed is that an identical process must also be followed by these same member states .
this directive could be 64 pages long , extremely detailed , mathematical , and involve a lot of engineering expertise .
better lawmaking - a shared responsibility ( 1998 ) [ com ( 1998 ) 715 - c5-0266 / 2000 - 1999 / 2197 ( cos ) ]
the next item is the oral question to the commission ( b5-0546 / 00 ) by mr varela suanzes-carpegna on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the state of negotiations for a new fisheries agreement with morocco .
the agreements with third countries have very great significance for the european union and especially for those regions with large fishing harbours .
this house has been quite rightly criticised along with the commission regarding the agreement with morocco , which from the outset has been addressed with tremendous hesitation and naivety .
this means the end of shore-based activities , boat repairs , the provisioning of vessels , canning factories and oil factories , which is to say that a whole economic sector is currently paralysed as a result of this .
the little information that is available is unclear , despite the fact that negotiations have continued - or so we are told - with various complicated ups and downs .
he had gained a favourable impression from his meeting , which augurs well for the negotiations , due to start on 30 october , being conducted in a constructive spirit .
the text would then read : " whereas the persons affected , who are union citizens , have been involved in protracted and repetitive litigation and have seen their legitimate expectations dashed .
we exchanged a great deal of correspondence with the players concerned and went to a great deal of trouble to select from among piles of irrelevant documents the elements that proved conclusively that the former lettori had in fact been the victims of discrimination by certain italian universities in respect of their financial acquired rights such as salaries and contributions to pension schemes .
under italian law , you do not become a university lecturer automatically by virtue of experience , you have to pass a public examination .
we are a small house because it is a friday morning but it needs to be noticed and recognised that this is an all-party issue and an all-union issue .
in a kafkaesque style the universities even went as far as to remove their names from the internal telephone books , the doors and the university websites .
i think that the saying " if you don 't take yourself seriously , no-one else will " is most apt here .
the root of the issue is that it is impossible to grant a language assistant , a person who is well versed in english and comes to an italian medical university to explain to the students what the italian terms are for heart disease , operation , liver disease , and so forth , to have the same rights , on the basis of their having the same status , as someone who teaches medicine .
with regard to the report by mr ceyhun , on behalf of the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , i have received two requests : one request from the group of the party of european socialists for referral of this report to committee , and one request from the group of the greens / european free alliance for deferral of this report to a later part-session .
this is an extremely serious initiative towards reintroducing censorship in italy , limited to text books for the moment but which will soon be extended to other areas .
we must ensure that those who are the innocent victims - the collateral damage i suppose we should call it - of the war upon crime are not left languishing in jails , incommunicado from their families .
we are the only ones here who want to see measures that truly prevent money laundering , which is to say the immediate abolition of banking secrecy , the trade secret , the business secret , access to the accounting ledgers of all banking and manufacturing companies and the right of all the employees of these companies , of all consumers , to bring to the public ' s attention any transfer of funds that is against the interests of society at large .
according to the united nations , the annual volume of money recycled through money-laundering operations is approaching usd 1 billion .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , part of the price of freedom is that the democratic state under the rule of law frequently chases wrongdoers from quite some distance when it wishes to prosecute them .
mr president , i would very quickly like to begin by thanking mrs gebhardt for her excellent report and by saying that the commission endorses almost all of the points that have fuelled her reflections .
while , with this annual report , the new commission will quite clearly be held accountable and will need to be reminded of its duty , the fair programme is , as it were , unfinished business from a bygone era .
my question to the commission in this regard highlighted some possibilities , but unfortunately no usable result has yet emerged .
in that connection , i should like to make it clear that , in view of the very great degree of expertise possessed by the commission , we cannot accept that so many of the things we adopted in the decisions have not been implemented .
mr bethell , your point has nothing to do with the approval of the minutes but i can , however , readily inform you that the conference of presidents voted to give this year ' s sakharov prize to the ' basta ya ' association .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , first of all i should like to join the european parliament in expressing the presidency ' s sympathies on the occasion of the accident which occurred near salzburg in austria , and say that we fully share in the sorrow of the families of the victims of this most serious accident .
overall , i should say that this text unquestionably marks the greatest collective advance in terms of affirming social rights , both because of the importance of the rights enshrined and also because these rights are included for the first time in the same text as civic and political rights , thereby officially signposting the indivisible nature of all fundamental rights .
some think it a success and others now think it a thwarted ambition .
the charter cannot serve as a smokescreen for the french presidency in order to conceal an igc that is on its last legs .
we are currently conspiring to kill off the commission , a murder with a willing victim , since the commission fell in with the council ' s proposals last week .
madam president , first my heartfelt thanks to my friend and delegation leader méndez de vigo , who swapped places with me because i was due to head a conciliation for parliament .
how can we fail to recognise that in the twenty-first century , once the concept of dignity has been set forth , the key thing is the indivisibility of the whole package of rights ?
it is a sad thing that the party of churchill and maxwell fyfe should have come to this point that , when we at last try to ensure that the institutions of the union are not the tyrants of brussels but persons subject under article 51 to the obligations binding on all institutions of the union , the british conservatives say " no " .
those who are more backward and more reactionary have , once again , triumphed over those who are fighting to see fundamental rights applied to all people and for an effective , legally binding response to new issues such as the risks of science , the rights of the new citizens , the right to a healthy environment etc . consequently , we are once again left disappointed and dissatisfied .
but this charter is clearly aimed at furthering the ever-closer union of the peoples of europe .
sixty thousand people are expected from the etuc organisations alone .
i think some very skilful work has been done .
most worrying is the orwellian possibility under article 52 of the suspension of fundamental rights when the interests of the european union are at stake .
turkish citizens are realising that turkey ' s accession to the eu will require not only the ' painless ' revision of their institutions but also a partial renunciation of sovereignty , to which they remain jealously attached , and a radical change in habits and outlook .
mr president , the european liberal group strongly welcomes the morillon report which we find skilful , frank and forceful .
there is no one here , least of all myself , who would deny the fact that genocide was perpetrated against the armenians during the last period of the ottoman empire .
articles trampling on state competences .
in the end , the haggling that this type of process inevitably leads to resulted in our weighing the notion of europeans ' " religious heritage " against the promotion of " free enterprise " .
the marinho report now seeks to extend the principle of the mutual recognition of national measures for the identification , tracing , freezing , seizing and confiscation of instrumentalities and the proceeds from crime , established by the joint action 98 / 699 / jha in 1998 , to decisions in the pre-court phase , especially those enabling the competent authorities to take rapid action to obtain evidence and seize easily transportable assets .
it was accepted that the principle of mutual recognition should also apply to pre-trial orders , in particular to those which would enable competent authorities quickly to secure evidence and seize assets , which are easily moveable .
however , i would like to draw your attention to the possible reforms of criminal law that could take place in various member states such as spain , for example , with the partido popular in power - which is taking advantage of a certain situation - because these reforms are still a concern for the europe of freedom and democracy .
langenhagen report ( a5-0310 / 2000 )
mr president , if turkey were a member of the eu , it would be the most populous member state after germany .
that is why the frankness which runs through the morillon report deserves special mention , although fewer excuses at some points in the report would , i think , have reflected the factors used to evaluate turkey 's progress towards accession more accurately .
and from this point of view , the report is right to condemn the bombing of kendakor by the turkish air force and to highlight and reiterate the turkish government 's obligation to support negotiations between turkish and greek cypriots without preliminary conditions .
how much more desirable and acceptable would be the goal of a looser community of nation-states trading freely and acting in unison over a limited range of policy areas and how much easier it would then be to accommodate a country such as turkey .
what is new is the accession partnership , and the accession partnership contains a very important stipulation : that the candidate country must deal with all the issues addressed in the progress report .
the fact that the situation in the middle east is difficult at present is not , therefore , a reason to lower our ambitions for the marseilles conference .
today , on the eve of marseilles , the french presidency naturally wishes to see the european union ' s mediterranean priority confirmed , including in financial terms .
it is also true that setbacks in the pre-peace process have slowed down the progress of barcelona .
in june 2000 , the feira council adopted a common mediterranean strategy and , after proposing and obtaining endorsement for reform of the meda regulation , the commission recently tabled a document on reinvigorating the barcelona process .
braudel 's ' mediterranean of a thousand things ' , the ancient civilisations which , for years , have regarded each other with hostility across the basin , now have the opportunity to start afresh , setting off along a common path which , through political will and the power of dialogue , will lay the foundations for genuine progress and economic and social development .
there is now a regulation on the table which , as i see it , equips the european union to deliver aid in an efficient manner and on time , and to put eu funds to good use in the countries of the western balkans .
we have to give more effective and more coordinated aid , gathering together all the scattered bits and pieces .
i think we all realise that a slimmer , more efficient structure is needed if the good work which the kosovo agency has carried out in recent months is to be consolidated for future purposes .
i think it would be counterproductive and i am certain that mr lang will do his utmost and if mr moscovici were here , he would perhaps do so too .
other objectives of the zagreb summit must include an announcement of the community assistance and reconstruction , democratisation and stabilisation programmes for the western balkans , a confirmation of the progressive establishment of a free trading zone between the european union and the western balkans and a commitment by the countries in the region for regional cooperation and to putting in place a free trading regime between them .
for several months , mr baker ' s mission has been twofold ; he has sought both to resolve the difficulties inherent in implementing the settlement plan , which should lead to a referendum on self-determination for the sahrawi people , and to reach a political agreement .
i understand the concerns expressed by mr souladakis and mr alavanos , but i do not have anything to add regarding the action taken by the european union as it has been carried out .
it makes no great difference whether she has transgressed voluntarily or against her will , that is to say been raped .
the austrian government is the legitimate government of a country in the european union and it is up to us whether we approve or disapprove of the way it is made up .
secondly , the council refers in its reply to nato as pontius pilate , without taking a position on turkey 's provocation in contesting greek sovereign rights , on this occasion during nato exercises .
fourthly , and most importantly for us , new borders are being erected but they are no obstacle to the activities of criminal organisations , which know no borders .
from this point of view , i think that resurrecting an issue which was resolved about a year ago with the pack report as far as the headquarters of the reconstruction agency is concerned is a disservice .
we must bear in mind that there is still a long way to go along the road to peace in the balkans and that potential friction points still exist which could well set the whole process back again .
seventy percent of the funds committed had been contracted and 43 % of the contracted funds had been paid .
in the social and cultural field , leaders recognised the vital importance of better educational links with specific initiatives for promoting mutual awareness , including an enhancement of inter-university cooperation and electronic networking between schools .
if you take a long-term view of political and economic developments in our multi-polar world , then you will see that asia 's relations with europe , and vice versa , are of paramount importance .
what we dislike about asem ii is not so much what we have managed to achieve , because projects to do with money-laundering , hiv and aids , food safety and suchlike , are of course to be welcomed .
there is over-fishing , pollution of our seas , the climate is changing - we see that at the conference at the hague at the moment - and the physical alteration of the environment puts increasing pressure on these finite resources .
the law of the survival of the fittest still applies on the high seas .
it is necessary , therefore , to come up with new instruments to guard against a serious crisis re-emerging despite a high level of internal consumption and good use of export opportunities .
setting up a compensation fund will quicken the concentration of european slaughter pig production considerably because the risk of bigger capital investments will shift to the common fund .
if every common organisation of the market were as anti-cyclical as what mr garot has proposed , or if all organisations of the market were to work in favour of smaller holdings , as mr busk has just said , then holdings in europe would be structured very differently .
the latest cases of bse will result in reduced production and will eclipse everything put in place hitherto .
pigs have always had - as has been said by mrs keppelhoff-wiechert - tremendous highs and lows in price .
if , however , we opt for market organisation , and reinforcement of the associated policy , then we would do well , in my view , to see that the producer groupings are better equipped , so that they occupy a stronger position in the market ; a market which is becoming increasingly close-knit on the demand side , and which is gaining in influence .
but the title reads " on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation ( eec ) no 2759 / 75 on the common organisation of the market in pigmeat " .
will you make a commitment to do this in future , mr karlsson , because a lack of clear information in the report makes it very difficult for us to put pressure in the right areas on the worst offenders .
but i should like to make it abundantly clear that a procedure of this kind has to develop very gradually so that we do not have a complete change in the method of data collation because then the value of this exercise would not meet the requirements we are set under the treaty .
i was also thinking about florida this morning , mr van hulten , and i am thankful that i was not responsible for auditing the election procedure in that specific state .
incidentally , we support the commission ' s proposals concerning the extension of the directive 's scope of application to include services , and also the incorporation of migrated products , even though there is certainly still a lot more that could be done in these areas , which will no doubt fall to us in the future .
amendments nos 30 , 32 , 42 and the main part of amendment no 33 propose rewordings of the existing text of the directive which is not subject to revision .
before we proceed to the vote , i wish to inform you that mr claudio martelli of the technical group of independent members has now joined the mixed group , that is he has switched from the technical group to the mixed group .
- i welcome this report by mr averoff on a proposal to grant funds to greece in order to relieve the interest burden on eib loans for the reconstruction of the attica region which was devastated by the earthquake of september 1999 .
but all the declarations concerning ' equal opportunities for men and women ' are cast in a rather garish light by the european directive authorising night work for women .
we would have liked to have scrutinised the fourth action programme just as we are now considering the fifth programme .
as this ngo plays an integral role in the formation and implementation of this programme , i believe the integrity of this community framework strategy on gender equality is in question , and therefore unsupportable .
the garot report is an attempt to improve on some aspects of the commission ' s proposal , by seeking to reach a compromise with the council , specifically with regard to a financial contribution to the fund .
- ( nl ) the pigmeat market is cyclical .
at a time when the last witnesses of exile , the last survivors of the carnage , are quietly passing away , the work and the duty of remembrance are even more necessary .
these countries came under turkey ' s dominion in the past , and uprisings that took place there were repeatedly suppressed using violent means .
we cannot forget the deportation of the entire armenian population to the deserts of mesopotamia , the deportation of the armenians of eastern anatolia in 24 hours , the shooting of able-bodied men , the persecution of women , children and old people , who covered hundreds of kilometres on foot , without medical care and without food , divested of their belongings , raped , their throats slit on the open road , the deportation in 1915 of the armenians of cilicia and eastern anatolia , the assassination of 600 armenian prominent citizens in constantinople , the extermination of more than a million armenians in just over a year - in other words , almost half the ottoman armenians .
a small subject grew into an extensive piece of work owing to the fact that proposals on hazardous and non-hazardous waste were combined in a single directive .
this will preferably be in the form of proposals for recommendations to include the following points : recognition by member states of a common concept of a universal service to govern the basic service which will enable every european citizen to have access to the necessary care ; establishing , in agreement with the private insuring bodies , guaranteed respect for the principle of non-discrimination ; organising a system of pooling costs in order to cover the costs of persons and groups with serious existing diseases , and encouraging private insurers to develop preventative measures .
if more and more europeans turn to supplementary health insurance in order to reimburse health care costs , the mutualist sector will remain the best guarantee for equal access to care .
in particular , these sentiments are to be found in recital j and paragraphs 11 e ) and f ) and 14 of this report .
i also feel that the increase in labour mobility in europe is necessary and lends weight to our argument in favour of producing the aforementioned green paper and measures on the cost of public health .
i have to say , even , that i am rather taken over by the subject for , to my eyes , mr president , you resemble a chief physician , with a white coat , stethoscope and hammer to test the patient 's reflexes .
it is a classic example of socialist interventionism .
in the case of the netherlands , the commission has other concerns , such as the suitability of the policy mix and the risks associated with the fiscal incentive effects of the tax cuts in a situation of strong economic growth , which might lead to the netherlands economy overheating .
mr president , commissioner , we are grateful to you for your report on trends in net government borrowing in the european union , mr solbes mira .
mr president , i too am heartened to see that public finances in the countries concerned are sound , but i have noticed that more and more people are becoming nervous about the situation regarding price stability in europe .
the council of the european union is also playing an active role , in concert with the european parliament and the european commission , in updating and constantly reinforcing europe ' s raft of measures to prevent and combat this disease .
the commission view that targeted testing is essential in establishing a true picture of the real incidence of bse in the community has been fully vindicated by the test results in france .
i welcome in this respect that prime minister jospin yesterday also announced a substantial strengthening of controls on the food chain including a big increase in staff .
but , faced with the crisis , it is necessary to guarantee health and food protection for consumers and an income for livestock producers , butchers , tripe butchers and wholesalers alike , all of whom are victims of the negligence of the public authorities , at both national and community level .
a reform of the cap is not just necessary , it is indispensable , because it is intolerable that a european country should adopt draconian measures and jeopardise its economy .
had that happened , we would not now be complaining that we have been put in an undesirable category just because we asserted that we were bse-free .
mr byrne did not say very much today , as he was widely trailed to have done , about testing .
therefore , consumers and producers must unite to obtain greater guarantees of the inviolable principle that food should be healthy .
secondly , there is the question as to whether it is acceptable to use bonemeal in cattle feed , which has been the subject of lively debate here in this chamber .
there are increasing incidences , also in my own country , of dead sheep or calves simply being left behind because it costs too much to have them collected .
commissioner byrne was very strong today in his opening statement when he said to the house that he was prepared to look at this matter of meat-and-bone meal and take it on .
what we must bear in mind when considering this issue is the fact that there is already in existence a ban on the provision of meat-and-bone meal to cattle .
the recent spate of instances in which various member states have failed to respect the most basic human rights when expelling immigrants is such as to warrant special attention for this issue from the commission .
mr president , i wish to state that i share mrs cerdeira morterero ' s concerns and that i hope she is not only addressing her appeal to the commission , but also to the council , so that we may have the entire legal framework adopted by next june .
does the commission intend to take any steps at least to put an end to the current diversity of opinion which is so prejudicial to the euro ?
we are told that finding paid work is the best way of preventing social exclusion but i would agree with those who have said that we would have to take account of the fact that gainful employment alone is no guarantee of social participation .
where this has been achieved , even in europe , unemployment has fallen convincingly .
every year , my friends mr thomas mann and mr mario mantovani and i go to the poor sisters ' institute in brussels to serve meals to the town 's poor tramps , and our hearts bleed and we feel guilty that we are only able to do this once a year : we would like to be able to do it every day but , in all honesty , it would be impossible .
since the plea by the advocate-general before the court of luxembourg , there is now less risk of seeing guaranteed prices foiled by state-aid regulations .
we favour a shorter period followed by a review , and i would say to my colleague , mrs mcnally , that she paints a pretty picture of windmills in the sea , but i must tell her that the engineering difficulties and the costs involved make that technology , as with electricity from the sun , rather a long way off in the future .
we therefore support amendments nos 36 and 56 and also certain aspects of amendments nos 4 , 15 and 62 , relating to the idea of internalising external costs and compensating for external costs which are not covered in favour of renewable energy sources .
gender-related aspects of armed conflicts
the aversion some men in this house have shown towards having a serious discussion of this issue means the writing is on the wall .
we agree that rapes , forced pregnancy , forced sterilisation and any other type of sexual violence should be recognised as crimes against humanity , and legal texts should therefore be updated to protect women effectively .
in this field there has been nothing but shameful failures but nevertheless we are still faced with a brick wall which excludes women .
in her eagerness to oppose everything that is evil , systematic rape and sexual slavery are condemned .
mr president , we are now descending to the level of a more everyday problem , namely the regulation of domestic work performed by third parties in private families , for that is the subject under discussion .
finally , all this will inevitably involve financial intervention from the government , be it fiscal or parafiscal , because a private family would not be able to afford a full statute , even a limited one , and then they would all carry on taking people from the black market .
mr president , we are very much looking forward to your address and we hope it will trace out the paths of our rediscovered cooperation and brotherhood , which we will henceforth be travelling along together .
when it comes to relations between serbia and montenegro within the federal state , the former , non-democratic organisation of the federal republic of yugoslavia seriously threatened the functioning of the state .
the stipulations concerning the duty of the commission and the council to provide parliament with information , have no place in this legislative proposal .
in other words , as i see it , a link has been established - erroneously so - between the rights of parliamentarians and the rights of the public .
our concerns are threefold : the first is regarding the common foreign and security policy sectors , but also the sectors of justice and home affairs .
i would also like to say how much the commission and myself appreciate the efforts made by the rapporteur , mr cashman , and the draftsperson of the proposal , mrs maij-weggen , to present this report in such a short period of time .
we , in the committee , cautiously accept the role proposed by the commission for external ratings , with the reservation that this is a role with limitations - most importantly , small businesses will not need to be rated , nor will businesses without a rating be disadvantaged .
report ( a5-0318 / 2000 ) , by mr cashman , on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation regarding public access to european parliament , council and commission documents [ com ( 2000 ) 30 - c5-0057 / 2000 - 2000 / 0032 ( cod ) ]
moreover , the ambiguous wording of paragraph 4 is bound to raise questions about the resolve of the authorities to oppose , by all possible means , the fraud and swindling of the agri-food trusts , when it would have been so much simpler to say in a few words that the production and use of meat-and-bone meal are totally forbidden .
it is crucial to resume the negotiations in the wto so as to enable european farmers to increase their production of vegetable-based proteins .
the commission is clearly envisaging no more than half-way measures , which will take away from and not add to the countries with the most stringent safety , whereas , in line with the principle of subsidiarity , it should be giving member states back the freedom of action they need to protect their people effectively , to ensure their safety , taking account of public opinion in their country , the political resolve there , the scale of the epidemic in their country and the place of the sectors involved in that country ' s economy and their society .
these are very legitimate concerns and they have led parliament to be very vigilant and to table amendments aimed at establishing very stringent controls over everything connected with the process of incineration and co-incineration .
billions are paid out in subsidies to the few who are ruining the countryside with their wind turbines .
nuclear energy can cause disasters capable of rendering large parts of the earth uninhabitable , and produces a hazardous waste product .
it is urgently necessary to breathe new life into the interparliamentary dialogue ( asep ) between europe in the west and asia in the east .
i believe that four years ago - mr salafranca perhaps remembers this better - we held a meeting , called by irela , in antigua , a beautiful city in guatemala , where we debated along with our colleagues from parlacen what the future should be , not only of parlacen , but also of the european parliament .
i therefore believe that we have to flatly reject the self-interested criticisms of those people who brand the activity of the central american parliament an artificial system and accuse it of being a cardboard parliament which is hollow and devoid of substance .
( b5-0849 / 2000 ) by rod and maes , on behalf of the verts / ale group ;
but above all , we must , in my view , insist much more firmly on this racist constitution being declared null and void .
all we can do is ensure that these are free and peaceful elections , and hope that the new ivoirian government has a broad democratic basis . this is what is needed to restore ethnic harmony and help this country out of its economic morass .
for the same reason , it is tolerating all the villainies of its protégés who run the ivoirian state , provided they protect french interests in return .
the number of political prisoners appears to have risen from 1,500 to 3,000 very recently , many of whom are forced to carry out hard labour and are subject to cruel forms of torture .
mr president , for many years i have had a poster on the wall of my office of aung san suu kyi when she was awarded the sakharov prize by this parliament .
large numbers are under arrest or are being harassed , and attempts have been made to close down their offices in burma .
i would just ask you to approach this matter with delicacy , and i hope you will pardon me this misuse of my speaking time on the question of vietnam .
the war between these two countries has not led to lasting bitterness .
president clinton would do well to raise this matter during his present visit to hanoi .
since then , vietnam has pursued an open-door external policy , and that is why that country occupies the place that it deserves within our international relations .
this , of course , will be of small consolation to those living with filthy water running through their houses and who might be facing enormous financial loss .
it is not fair that people should experience tragedies of this proportion and then face a very uncertain future when , given the climatic changes already taking place , there is an absolute certainty that the problems they have experienced over the last couple of weeks will recur , if not next year , then certainly in the years that follow .
so we should now be voting on this highly important text in the presence of only 171 meps , which is the number just counted .
the åu attaches greater importance to the principle of the free provision of services than to the right to heath and medical care , methodically and systematically undermining the public health system , especially in the medical care sector , by disgracefully promoting private forms of insurance as a ' necessary ' complement to and / or substitute for the public-sector system of social protection .
we are in favour of matching the own capital held to cover credit risks more closely with the economic risk level and further developing the rules on own funds .
the rapporteur , herbert bösch , from the committee on petitions , states in the explanatory statement in his report that the principles that led to the ombudsman ' s recommendations proved to be the same as those adhered to by the european parliament : correctness , transparency and the desire to create confidence .
we could summon anyone in the country before the ombudsman committee , and the select committee procedure which i will discuss in two minutes is something that we could learn from .
we support the demand for a solution to be found to the conflict between the united states and the eu , produced by the discriminatory gramm-leach-bliley legislation .
i would thank the bavarian and german ministers of the interior , as well as former austrian minister of the interior schlögel , who together made this possible back in tampere .
no-one in the uk would ever have believed a soothsayer from that period who warned that it would all end up in dixon of dock green whistling " ode to joy " and working out how to apply the european approach to policing down at the nick .
parliament can be proud that the proposal to set up this academy originated here , and we are grateful to the portuguese presidency for taking it up and the commission and council for their support .
it is nevertheless a matter for regret that the scope of this regulation is limited , since it does not cover the families of unmarried couples , in which there are children born outside of marriage , whose rights will not , as a result , be recognised and enforced under community law .
but i have many more objections to tackling legal weaknesses and setting precedents in ways that leave social problems permanently unsolved .
this proposal is particularly hard and vexatious for ireland .
the local haulier in denmark or in the uk will get his full money 's worth 365 days a year , but the foreign haulier from another member state entering that country - maybe for one or two days or ten days or even 100 days - will not .
unfortunately , our democracies have been sent a new message of violence in the form of the particularly heinous murder of ernest lluch .
after intensive negotiations , both at technical and ministerial level , on the basis of draft decisions with approximately 500 square brackets , it was not possible to reach a comprehensive agreement on key political issues .
in the end , however , the concessions obtained from other parties on " supplementarity " , compliance and the kyoto mechanisms were insufficient to compensate for the weakening of emission-reduction targets , that would have been the result if the proposal on " sinks " had been accepted .
they were , in a sense , an accident waiting to happen - like the titanic and the iceberg .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , as chairman of the european parliament delegation to cop ­ vi , i wish to begin by expressing my pleasure at the excellent relationship that has developed between the commission and parliament over this last week .
we are pleased to welcome mr hubert védrine .
there is perceptible movement - i say that with caution because several member states may not yet have determined their final position - but support has begun to emerge for a simple reweighting whose exact scope and conditions remain to be defined , of course .
it is therefore no way to tackle the fact that the decision-making process within the european union is still akin to wading through treacle .
as practically everyone who has spoken before me here has said , we want a reference to the charter in article 6.2 . do not underestimate parliament ' s determination to achieve this .
mr president , mr president of the council , mr president of the commission , today at talks in the house , the president of latvia directed this reproachful remark at us : " we have been doing our homework !
it takes no great genius to work out that 700 members of parliament can no longer be sufficient for a europe of 27 or 28 nations , or the smaller countries will be at an unfair disadvantage .
the story of mrs vike freiberga is illustrative of the courage in adversity shown by the peoples of central and eastern europe .
this time , however , it is paradoxically the prospect of an emerging consensus that is causing us political headaches .
mr president , we members of forza italia and the european people 's party believe in this project and we will be protagonists alongside you in the construction of a europe of the citizens .
mr gorostiaga , i am going to interrupt you there .
there is so much more to say , but i want the council ' s representatives to know that the european parliament is keen to adopt this unfamiliar culture of security and defence , and we hope the nice summit is a great success .
as mr brok hopes in his report , the council will have files summarising all of the relationships between the union and each partner country , in order to gain greater benefit from the union ' s overall effort , to increase its efficiency and to provide better preparation for its discussions on external action .
this is the context that explains why the summit held recently in zagreb was so important .
the french presidency has striven to develop relations between the union and the other great regional blocs and has held many meetings with asian countries . there has been the third asem summit , the summit with japan and the one with china .
i wish i could say that our pressure and our action are having some effect on the current situation , but unfortunately the afghan situation appears to remain somehow self-sufficient and resistant to all such action .
firstly , we have the catalogue of capabilities , a 300-page document which scrupulously lists all the military capabilities that are known to be needed by our union in order to guarantee that all of the petersberg tasks can be fulfilled .
with respect to the provision of aid , the commission largely through its humanitarian aid office , echo , has made a number of specific interventions this year aimed at alleviating both the effects of the catastrophic drought in the country by supporting , through provision of funds for food security and winterisation kits , the population 's displaced by the fighting in the northeast of the country .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , it often takes a very long time before visible results can be discerned when issues are dealt with at european level .
secondly , nato should be gradually winding down rather than engaging in eastward enlargement .
i think if we could clearly understand that , then a lot of the concerns might indeed evaporate .
like my fine gael colleague , mrs doyle , i recognise that this does not represent the creation of a european army and before shrill voices are raised in my own country , which there will be , against irish involvement , i would point out that participation is voluntary and on a case by case basis .
a5-0326 / 2000 by mr harbour , on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , on the white paper on commission reform ( the aspects of direct relevance to the committee on legal affairs and the internal market ) [ com ( 2000 ) 200 - c5-0446 / 2000 - 2000 / 2216 ( cos ) ]
evidence of this weakness can be found in the extremely limited number of refusals of approval , of authorisation , originating from the commission .
we can see that some ground still needs to be made up here , and we hope that the commission will take a bolder approach to the transparency problem .
mr president , in his letter to the romans , the apostle paul exhorts his readers to allow themselves to be transformed by the renewing of their minds .
mr president , the resignation of the commission in the spring of 1999 was in fact the dénouement of a much more deep-seated problem within the european commission , namely vague working structures that resulted in a lack of political accountability , fragmented policy priorities and unsatisfactory results .
this cannot be achieved by over-emphasising the word ' internal ' in the reforms .
it emphasises the responsibility for those receiving reports of possible wrong-doing to act promptly , seriously and effectively .
the commission maintains a division - albeit a somewhat blurred one - between political responsibility and executive competence , which past experience leads us to believe , will not work very well in practice .
it was an excellent idea of mrs sauquillo ' s to include the part on external relations in the section on internal training , thereby making it an item on the agenda .
poverty and need are not just the product of economic backwardness and development problems but are often the result of aggression and the exploitation of the weak by the strong , of the selfishness of the capable in the face of the weakness of the marginalised .
finally , we should understand that mr patten ' s proposal for aid responsible to a board of commissioner directors with mr nielson as chief executive is an unworkable gimmick borrowed from management text books and is fundamentally incompatible with the collegiate structure of the commission itself .
i am told , especially in france , that stringent national measures must be adopted to protect french coasts : it has also been proposed that french coastguards should be deployed .
i wish to conclude by thanking mr gayssot , president of the transport council of ministers , for his encouraging comments .
what is less satisfactory , as has just been pointed out , is our past record ; heaven knows that the states of the european union have scarcely covered themselves in glory in the realm of maritime safety .
a few weeks ago , the west of france was struck by another ecological disaster , the wreck of the chemical tanker , the ievoli sun , and it is only today that the european parliament will take the decision to strengthen maritime safety .
mr president , i am only going to comment on and explain the majority position of the socialist group on one of the proposals , the one that modifies the directive regulating inspection organisations .
i would just like to concentrate on two dossiers : port state control and the phasing out of single-hull oil tankers .
if we want to be credible , we must act quickly and put an end to sterile political diatribes .
justice can be merciless towards the poor who are unable to pay a tax or a fine , and will even go so far as to seize their meagre belongings .
when we do this we should always remember that double hulls or even triple hulls do not guarantee with absolute certainty that accidents will not happen in the future .
in order to achieve the main objective of this proposal , namely to phase out old single-hull oil tankers quickly , we are prepared to go along with the deletion of the proposed financial incentive system setting up differential charging of port and pilotage dues .
let me conclude by recalling that one month ago the ievoli sun sank near cherbourg with 6 000 tonnes of dangerous cargo .
" you can understand that there might be an incompetent and provocative official , but when 15 countries give their assent to this kind of answer , madam president , i think you should take the initiative when you meet the council to have this prerogative of members of parliament respected .
report ( a5-0344 / 2000 ) by mr hatzidakis , on behalf of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the accelerated phasing-in of double-hull or equivalent design standards for single-hull oil tankers [ com ( 2000 ) 142 - c5 ­ 0173 / 2000 - 2000 / 0067 ( cod ) ]
at the same time , big shipowners ply their trade uncontrolled under flags of convenience and the state of world shipping goes from bad to worse .
the commission proposal looks reassuring , but is not proof against deliberate sabotage .
many technical experts have pointed out the difficulties encountered when inspecting the space between the two hulls and during its maintenance .
ships save on port fees by continuing to sail through stormy weather and by risking fatal accidents at other times too .
maritime safety must not simply be an issue arising out of a state of urgency in the wake of each new disaster that hits our shorelines , but the object of an internationally integrated and constant policy .
it is of little consequence to us whether the charter of fundamental rights is incorporated into the treaty on european union or not , because , in any case , this charter , allegedly a charter of fundamental rights , not only refuses to include the elementary rights of workers , it actually clears the way for retrograde social measures .
. ( fr ) on the eve of the nice summit and without prejudging the outcome , i want to salute the tremendous work carried out by the french presidency and the majority of ministers who generously put in the time and effort to address parliament on a regular basis both in committee and in parliament .
. ( pt ) the debate and the resolution adopted by parliament give serious cause for concern as to what will be decided at the nice summit , specifically as regards the potential increase in restrictions on the sovereignty of small countries such as portugal , the strengthening of federalism and the militaristic path in security and defence policy , and the weak and clearly inadequate measures in the social sphere .
the reforms proposed by malcolm harbour mep on the white paper are common sense reforms .
it is becoming ever more apparent that opening the debate on proportionality ( votes in the council and seats in the european parliament ) , one might go so far as to say on the balance of power between the member states , has opened a pandora ' s box which will be very difficult to close in nice .
i have a nephew , my sister ' s son , who has been at the nato bases in the united states learning to fly fighter planes , and he has been promoted , so he is ready to be an air-force pilot .
we do not need euro-militarism .
we do not consider that an arms build-up , with the resultant increased military expenditure , is the answer to the challenges faced by europe in 2001 and beyond .
we have 19 recitals and 23 numbered paragraphs with 36 subparagraphs .
guy-quint report ( a5-0327 / 2000 )
by the same token , nepotism and lack of transparency must be eradicated from the commission services , especially as regards recruitment for temporary posts .
madam president , no one underestimates the significance and scope of this summit , which has also been the lengthiest in the history of the european union .
madam president , in view of that decision and since commissioner liikanen will not be present on thursday but could be present on wednesday , i wonder whether it would be possible to bring mrs gill 's report on european digital content forward from thursday to wednesday to fill that slot .
madam president , on 20 october , 200 political prisoners went on hunger strike , which they intend to see through to the bitter end , in protest against the turkish government 's policy of using ' white ' isolation cells in order to undermine morale and break down prisoners ' resistance .
the fact is that the court of justice has just repealed the 1998 directive banning advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products .
however , i think the council ' s proposal with regard to the size of the warnings on labels besides those on cigarette packets , is an improvement on amendment no 25 , since the 50 cm ² limit is far too close to the surface area of a packet of cigarettes .
mr president , smoking is the tragedy of our time - the biggest cause of preventable illness and disease across the european union .
if you enlist article 133 for the export ban then the conclusion is obvious that it is not part of a common commercial policy to dictate to third countries what they should import .
there should be no exemption for trademarks or we will simply create new anomalies in competition and the single market .
they went on to say in paragraph 117 of the judgment : " as has been observed in paragraphs 98 and 111 of this judgment , a directive prohibiting certain forms of advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products could have been adopted on the basis of article 100a of the treaty .
the extra hour of daylight provided by moving to summer time is particularly beneficial in the tourism and leisure sector , where increases in business directly linked to lighter and longer evenings have been recorded .
the amendments which have been tabled by parliament and the rapporteur are therefore , in my opinion , unhelpful , because they tend to create uncertainty rather than increase confidence .
the next item is the recommendation for second reading ( a5-0349 / 2000 ) on behalf of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , concerning the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws , regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the implementation of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use [ 8878 / 1 / 2000 - c5-0424 / 2000 - 1997 / 0197 ( cod ) ] ( rapporteur : mr liese )
as far as the direct benefit is concerned , investigators running clinical trials have to identify those cases where it is necessary to administer medical products and carry out the accompanying examinations in order to draw conclusions for future patients .
finally , adults incapable of giving consent should only participate in trials that relate to the condition affecting them and causing their incapacity .
one more word , on another point i consider highly important , i mean amendment no 30 which concerns non-commercial clinical trials .
to summarise , madam president , i must say the developments in the public health sector in the european union go too far for my liking .
finally , this vote is important because parliament has the opportunity to make significant improvements to the legislative proposal , precisely those suggested in mrs cerdeira morterero ' s excellent report and supported by the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs .
in addition , it has been ascertained that when victims report crimes they are subjected to discriminatory behaviour .
the guilty party , arturo lojacono , was identified and sentenced , but sought refuge abroad .
the commission has submitted its analysis of outstanding commitments and its strategy for eliminating abnormal outstanding commitments .
having been allocated so little time , which is a pity because the budget - and the rapporteurs - deserve more than a derisory two and a half minutes , i must confine myself to just a few comments .
mr president , when a delegation from this parliament was visiting the people ' s republic of china some time ago , we were in xiamen , in the south-east of china , and there was an island visible on the horizon .
mr president , as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation , i would like first of all to say that the european parliament has scored a major victory in as much as the cuts in the latin american , asian and african poverty programmes have been made good .
in particular i would cite euronews so that people can see in the media what parliament and the union are doing .
we have a budget which is under 1.06 % , we have a budget , mr colom , which is within the financial perspective .
i should also like to thank mrs schreyer , who has continued to help us with her highly constructive approach and , of course , my friend jutta haug , who has done an excellent job , not forgetting joan colom i naval and markus ferber .
a year ago , the erika ran aground off the french coast and despite the amazing mobilisation of charities and the authorities , the coast is still suffering the consequences of this shipwreck .
we can welcome the fact that the union was able to announce that it would be dedicating some eur 13 billion to the process over a period of seven years , including , of course , the loans from the european investment bank .
unfortunately , we also witnessed the contrast between large and small countries over recent months - and this too should never be repeated , because it acts as an insidious poison in the european union - with many large countries behaving most meanly and many small countries behaving most generously .
this is a step backwards that applies to all areas of community life , and i predict , mr president-in-office of the european council , that our fellow citizens - and i am afraid also the members of parliament and the heads of government - are going to have to go back to school for lessons in arithmetic .
the obstacles between the fifteen that multiplied during the summit are symptomatic .
the member states do not have the support of the people because there is no such thing as a european people and they are therefore forced by public opinion to advocate their national interests with increasing fervour , even if this means changing the maximum number of members of the european parliament set by the treaty of amsterdam , which is already out of date , and even if this means increasing the number of european commissioners to 27 , even though the current commission of fifteen does not work .
into what situation will all these people have dragged france when the european bubble bursts and the french have nothing in their mouths but the bitter taste of having been conned once again by their mediocre and self-serving leaders ?
that brings us to the explanations of vote on the cerdeira morterero report .
that explains why many of us found nice heartbreaking .
mr president , the fairly unanimous message from the president-in-office of the council , the commission and heads of government is basically that the treaty of nice secures the framework for the unification of europe .
mr president , nice was , and should have been , a historic date , the kick-off for the new europe , the europe of the new century , the great europe , the europe of all the europeans .
four main problems loom large .
we have tried to work on a principle of simple reweighting in this squaring of the circle , and i think that on the whole the result is balanced .
but the european council in nice , like many other summits in the history of the european union , represents a triumph for reality , a triumph of pragmatism over utopianism .
this summit would have been a triumph if the crucial revision of the treaties had been crowned with as much success as the areas i have just mentioned .
and it is more democratic to boot .
mr blair returned to great britain as a conquering hero because he had not surrendered this , had not surrendered that and had fought for britain 's interests .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the principles of thrift and social and economic balance have been taken into account in drawing up the budget and the rapporteur must be thanked for that .
let us not kid ourselves , this is a good budget .
what we are talking about is an early-retirement scheme which as yet has no legal base ; no one knows whether what will be proposed is compulsory or non-compulsory and it is , after all , a p.m. that is on the line .
mr president , our relations with russia underwent a fundamental change when the cold war ended .
now i am in favour of encouraging russia and the ukraine to move in our direction and cooperate with other alliance countries in crisis-management tasks , but i would not be in favour of us moving in their direction or adjusting our policies in order to accommodate them .
unless the russian federation rectifies this situation by creating , post haste , the necessary legal and security framework and hence a more friendly investment climate , there would appear to be no way out of the economic crisis , high oil prices notwithstanding .
the famous russian opposition politician , grigori jawlinski , has made it into western newspaper columns again lately .
the twin-track strategy proposed by mr oostlander offers a way out , for which i thank him .
his report has been welcomed by all parts of parliament except , perhaps by those who look back with nostalgia to the not-so-golden days memorialised by a very large number of brave soviet dissidents .
the president-in-office must know if he met mr maskhadov or not .
what improvements does the council intend to make to the basic directive , 92 / 12 / eec , to ensure that the shipper ' s and recipient ' s responsibilities are precisely apportioned , precluding any possibility of fraud ?
i should like to draw the honourable member ' s attention to the fact that recital 3 of the draft directive does indeed stipulate that application thereof shall not be prejudicial to the commitments arising under the geneva convention of 28 july 1951 relating to the status of refugees , as amended by the new york protocol of 31 january 1967 .
the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation ( ec ) 2820 / 98 so as to extend duty-free access without any quantitative restrictions to products originating in the least-developed countries , which the commission put forward recently , is the result of community initiatives to improve market access for the least developed countries .
finally , non-tested animals aged above thirty months may no longer enter the food chain .
this party , which aims to reconcile islam and the modern world and which could make a significant contribution towards reviving the country 's ailing democracy and , therefore , strengthening the rule of law , finds itself subjected to a ban on the well-worn pretext that it would represent ' a threat to state security ' .
question no 11 by ( h-0894 / 00 ) :
the loïzidou case has already given rise to two judgements against turkey .
this occurs particularly in longuenesse jail in france and applies to truck drivers from the united kingdom and other countries .
question no 22 by ( h-0918 / 00 ) :
mr president , i am delighted to be able to comment on the excellent report by the honourable gentleman , mr baltas - produced , as several honourable gentlemen have said , with considerable expedition - on the commission 's feasibility study for a stabilisation and association agreement with croatia .
last month , as the house knows , croatia hosted , with extremely impressive efficiency and diplomatic finesse , the historic zagreb summit .
the road to democracy , to respect for human rights , to a sound administrative and legal system , to the eradication of corruption , seems to be a long road beset with obstacles .
last week , hundreds of students were picked up and four of them were returned to their parents as corpses .
the eu embassy in jakarta could assume a coordinating role .
more than one hundred thousand refugees remain in west timor , virtual human shields for the originators and perpetrators of crimes in east timor .
the international community must bring maximum pressure to bear on jakarta in order to put an end to the violence on the moluccas .
i believe indonesia is a great country , but it is at a crossroads , and it depends on the efforts of the international community and the european union whether , at this crossroads , it will swing for good towards democracy , respect for human rights and the rule of law , or whether the disorder will increase .
the position we have to take regarding the territorial integrity of indonesia is simple : we have to abide by international law and by the united nations resolution 2504 of december 1969 .
mr president , i welcome this report but i feel it is a little up-beat .
the support we are currently giving to the office of the attorney-general in jakarta is intended to help him in his attempts to combat corruption .
despite our having every possible sympathy for the rapporteur , mrs theato , and for her sterling efforts , we are opposed to establishing an independent european prosecution authority because it is a staging post towards the federal europe we oppose .
mr president , it is always a pleasure following mr dell 'alba , because he makes a british euro-sceptic sound very sensible in this place .
in colloquial terms , what this report is saying is that in future the committee on budgetary control will be more watchful and will want to hear names named when it comes to the unknown whereabouts of european tax monies .
the european single market is a pan-european market place but within which the market in shares must be treated like other markets so that national boundaries , even if they delineate different jurisdictions , do not interfere with the essential equivalence of the rules across the market place .
this amendment seeks to introduce an instrument enabling a majority shareholder to take over the remaining securities .
i owe special thanks to mr dehousse and mr echerer , whose many discussions helped bring about workable compromises .
mr president , to repeat a felicitous expression used by gesac ( the european association of authors ' and composers ' societies ) , the draft under discussion was subjected to unjustified attacks during its review by the council .
with one item there would have been considerable difficulty in tracing the artist 's family ; only tracing agents and collecting societies would have benefited .
madam president , commissioner , may i begin by reiterating my thanks to my honourable colleague markus ferber on behalf of our group , because he sought compromises within the committee and he found them .
what it came up with was , in the words of neil armstrong , the famous american astronaut : " one giant leap for mankind " in that they moved from 350 grammes to 50 grammes in one fell swoop .
some of my colleagues do not share my opinion on a number of scores , as will become evident in due course .
if the step which the european parliament now wants to take is far too small , let us then at least ensure that we pick up the thread in a couple of years ' time .
let me say this to georg and markus : when the postman calls once , or even twice , we are well aware that this is not the ultimate social service in europe .
the commission 's proposal to liberalise the postal services has been discussed intensively across the length and breadth of my constituency from malin head to connemara and from the outskirts of dublin to the islands .
madam president , arlette laguiller and i reject any way in which private capital might be introduced into postal services .
madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is as if we are debating the procession of echternach today : two steps forward , one step back with the little progress we are making on one of the key political dossiers for completing the internal market , namely the liberalisation of the postal services .
that is why i have re-tabled some of the amendments which we discussed in committee and which we will be voting for - especially in relation to the liberalisation of direct mail .
it will be a triple blow to britain and a triple blow in particular to rural britain : an end to the daily delivery and collection ; an end to the uniform price - people in rural areas will pay more for their post ; and third and finally , an end to our extensive and excellent network of rural sub-post offices .
in the same way , the great flights of rhetoric , here in this debate , on the need to build the new europe do little to conceal the faint-heartedness and conservatism that exist .
in this spirit , i can accept those of your amendments which are non-contentious and others which rightly give emphasis to issues such as universal service as applied in member states , redressing complaints , and the rural network .
this proposal has already been accepted by ecuador , the world ' s leading banana producer and one of the parties which has complained to the world trade organisation .
i believe that the amendment tabled at the last minute by mr vatanen does nothing to help this issue , and i would ask him , if he is listening , to consider the possibility of withdrawing it .
i conclude by congratulating the rapporteur , mr dary , on the excellent job he has done .
report ( a5-0376 / 2000 ) by mrs theato , on behalf of the committee on budgetary control , on the commission communication " protection of the communities ' financial interests - the fight against fraud - for an overall strategic approach " [ com ( 2000 ) 358 - c5-0578 / 2000 - 2000 / 2279 ( cos ) ]
as many as half a million people in europe are killed by tobacco , and 85 % of lung cancers are caused by smoking .
mr president , i voted for the trakatellis report which , as we know , allocates eur 79.1 million for 2001-2002 , including eur 8.5 million to health information , eur 31.1 million to the plan of action on cancer , eur 22.2 million to the prevention of aids , eur 11.4 million to the prevention of drug dependence , eur 4.4 million to health monitoring and eur 1.3 million to the fight against pollution-related diseases .
also , both the young and the renowned artist will suffer if the international trade moves outside the european borders due to european over-regulation .
the fraudsters will seek out those countries that have the least protection .
corpus juris envisages the eventual creation of an independent european prosecution office with jurisdiction for offences against the eu 's financial interests carried out both by members and officials of eu institutions and by third parties .
mr dary ' s report shows due concern both for the banana producers in the community and the acp countries .
we would like to focus the twice-yearly summits on strategic themes that may run across several summits .
i know the commission is now talking about reviving elements of its position for a new round , making it more flexible , and i look forward to knowing what that really means in practice .
my military career was neither long nor distinguished , but i did learn that the role of the artillery was to bombard the infantry , if possible , the enemy infantry .
in this sense , i welcome the commission 's brave attempt to find a way to close the competitive gap that clearly exists between eu and non-eu e-business .
i think that the fairest thing from the point of view of the different transport sectors and also from the point of view of competition is for us to lead the way and introduce aircraft fuel tax within the eu .
yet we are all aware now that unfettered fiscal competition is detrimental to every one of us .
coordinating and harmonising are not the same as standardising .
mr president , it is truly touching to hear the purportedly angelic arguments in favour of promoting e-commerce , but here the problem we have is the real competitive disadvantage of our european companies , and the problem of correcting that situation by establishing certain rules , so that all services supplied to private individuals by electronic means in the european union are subject to vat .
mr president , i find the idea of a unilateral setting of eu aircraft fuel tax regimes entirely inappropriate , given that globally we are still subject to the chicago convention of 1944 , exempting kerosene from taxation internationally .
it creates legal certainty for every individual saver and citizen .
these discussions will prove very difficult , however , since the possibility of levying tax on aircraft fuel was not decided on at the previous general meeting .
this accident , which followed many others , gave rise to anger and despondency amongst the communities that were affected and within public opinion in general because of the opacity of the maritime sector and the inability of the legislation in force to prevent problems such as this .
the second objective is to simplify and speed up , in the case of accident , the communication of detailed information on dangerous and polluting cargoes , obliging ships and authorities to communicate the data electronically .
question no 33 by ( h-0873 / 00 )
i am not in a position to give you exact figures in relation to the volume of imports of beef from third countries but i can say that such imports are governed by the appropriate regulations and that food safety considerations underlie that legislation .
mr president , the jews are the enemies of the prophets and believers .
conversely , member states and the european union have at their disposal other means to deal with human-rights-related issues .
in addition , if in the framework of the tbr procedure the commission does not achieve a negotiated solution with korea satisfactory for the european union , the commission will report to the council by 1 may 2001 and will propose to bring the case to the wto in order to seek remedy against unfair korean practices .
and we must not forget that mr valdivielso de cué asked you if the commission believed that , without the aid which the shipbuilding industry had received , this industry would have been able to survive in the european union .
subject : everything except armaments is the commission content that this dramatic proposal - which may well have dire consequences for already hard-pressed sugar beet farmers in the european union - should be passed without any consultation of the directly-elected european parliament ?
regarding glenys kinnock ' s question concerning the link between this initiative and the cotonou agreement , i should like to say again that the commission entirely respected the spirit and the letter of the provisions of this agreement when it came to informing and consulting the acp countries .
one of the four organisations is ecpat , whose measures in this area during 2001 , which are eligible for aid , are wholly covered by this application .
i would like to be assured that the commission will consider very carefully the virtues of such an approach , because i suspect a proliferation of jurisdictions may , in the end , fragment our legal systems .
i thank mr berenguer fuster for making such a strong plea to the commission .
the diploma is then british .
question no 49 by ( h-0912 / 00 )
at present we are looking for other more profitable ships and service operators to take the place of those that have now discontinued service , and the intention would be to combine passenger and freight traffic .
therefore it is necessary to shorten the implementation of the programme and it also enables this programme to have a much greater impact owing to the commitment of more money in shorter timescales .
the much-vaunted cultural and linguistic diversity of europe is indeed a frequent barrier , especially in the context of the single market .
subsidiarity - as will soon transpire from the debate - is an important element which the environmental committee would like to honour .
the rapporteur has now quoted far higher percentages , but the fact is that ambient noise is a serious and a major environmental problem .
in spain and in many mediterranean countries , the normal day extends considerably later than the 7.00 p.m. indicated in the directive .
the first thing we need for this is a framework directive which prescribes measuring procedures and action plans , thereby establishing the basis for a general standardisation of noise-abatement policies .
it seems that treatment with alginate may mislead the consumer , since the food may appear fresher than it really is .
we must be careful not to take a top-down approach to what has to be a bottom-up initiative .
indeed , the concept of sustainable development , particularly in the case of cities and towns , is not , and cannot be , limited solely to the environmental aspect , but also embraces social and economic aspects .
the second issue relates to commitology .
the text produced by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy is the result of an ongoing search for a compromise or , rather , a balance between the maximalist and minimalist tendencies which were expressed in the course of our discussions , both of which result in excesses .
we must ensure that this report echoes public demands for a high level of protection for health and the environment .
so i am pleased to see that the final report reflects the need for further elaboration of the concept .
as everyone should know , our whole lives are fraught with risks and uncertainties .
an analysis of the pros and cons is an absurd concept bearing in mind the idea behind the precautionary principle , namely to be able to react to a product before we fully know all the advantages and disadvantages .
non-nationalist elected officials are murdered , as well as businesspeople , journalists , members of the security forces or private individuals who have expressed themselves in any way against the project to impose independence .
i am not at all convinced by the fact that large swiss environmental organisations have been sweet-talked into this with the argument that the revenue from levies will benefit the expansion of rail .
the european union is thereby now conceding , admittedly rather late in the day , the importance of substantial aid to the republic of yugoslavia , which is at a low ebb , and of doing so whilst respecting its borders .
this is a conspicuously weak conclusion .
by gradually deregulating the european market postal services can be made more efficient and the level of service to the customer raised .
how will the postal sector emerge from this period in which contradictions and controversies have been used to prop up the arguments , which are nevertheless often technical , that have been put together in the context of opening it up to competition ?
the price and weight limits are set at reasonable levels , with weights of up to 150 grams remaining the sole preserve of the universal service , linked with a price ceiling of four times the public tariff .
the commission ' s proposal regarding postal services embodies an unrestrained desire to liberalise , threatening an essential public service along with the companies that provide it and the workers that perform it .
we do not wish to favour either the big sharks of the banana industry or the smaller sharks from the area under europe ' s protection .
in this context , the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms forms a framework delineating the content for the sake of consumer protection .
the econtent programme is intended to encourage the development and the use of european digital content in the global networks and to promote linguistic diversity in the information society .
on the contrary , the people of europe and their parliament have experienced a ' regression from amsterdam ' .
we pensioners often travel and , to tell the truth , train and car journeys are tiring : for us , aeroplanes are a dream come true .
' okay , i 'll walk . '
therefore , innovative factors like this one , however humble , must not be undervalued by anyone .
of course , if we want to be consistent , this call needs to be accompanied by a restriction on tiresome bureaucracy , commissioner , at all stages of the procedure for including and implementing programmes .
one especially good feature of this initiative is that it has enabled women in particular to familiarise themselves with new information technology and its applications .
if the berlin reform for the 7 years dealt with by agenda 2000 , that is to say for the period 2000-2006 , reduced the budgetary contributions for these actions by half in comparison with the previous period and , to that , we add the inevitable slowness with which we adopt decisions at a community level , as a result of our complex institutional structure , it is not surprising that we are in a situation where we have not even been able to spend the budget laid down for the current year for innovative regional policy measures , and this is an example of political irresponsibility .
we have taken certain aspects on board in order to help smes find ways of meeting their needs for staff with computing skills .
south korea has received more than 40 % of all the shipbuilding orders that have been placed in the year 2000 , according to the commission report ; it has been able to do this on the basis of loans from south korean banks , some of which are state-owned , by virtue of state guarantees which are tantamount to subsidisation .
i hope that the timing of the presentation of that report to parliament was not a ploy to encourage us to take this item off the agenda .
more importantly , we have also taken note of the council 's conclusions of 5 december , a council which agreed to safeguard the future by standing its ground with south korea and not dismissing the possibility of reintroducing shipbuilding aid in may for the specific market segments hardest hit by korean competition .
it is true that europe is suffering from unfair competition because in korea , above all , very low salaries are paid and workers are forced to endure abysmal working conditions and , under these circumstances , european workers have no way of competing with them .
this transparent form of support discourages european yards from applying all kinds of reduction or marketing methods which do not conform to the market .
there , these days , what were once shipyards are now concert halls , maritime museums etc . in these shipyards , 4 000 people once worked , and now just a couple of doormen work in each place , and that is what is happening in the european countries .
once upon a time there was a british nuclear submarine called the tireless .
i am not being alarmist .
so , over these months , we have been on a wild goose chase .
in reply to whether an intervention plan exists for the area of gibraltar and the port of gibraltar , the british authorities have drawn the commission 's attention to the existence of the gibraltar public safety scheme , known as " gibpubsafe " , which is the intervention plan for gibraltar .
the first point i would like to make is that the repairs to the cooling system of this submarine are already under way .
this problem with the submarine has to be settled calmly and with full cooperation between all interested , relevant authorities .
the spanish government , from the outset , has held a position based on two points : the need for transparent information , based on technical and scientific criteria , in order to assess the scope of the repairs and their potential risk ; and also , the view that any decision , either on its repair in gibraltar or on its removal to a naval base in the british isles , be taken in accordance with rigorous technical principles .
b5-0901 / 2000 by sylla and others , on behalf of the gue / ngl group ;
anyone who was at the recent exhibition in the european parliament and who studied the pictures and the script dealing with the work of the unhcr in the world at the moment i think would agree that it is one of the saddest exhibitions that we have ever had the misfortune to see in our parliament .
these meetings should help the commission provide the more predictable and transparent funding that unhcr requests and has long called for , while at the same time assisting unhcr in rendering a better service to those in need .
b5-0902 / 2000 by morgantini and frahm , on behalf of the gue / ngl group ;
b5-0911 / 2000 by grossetête , on behalf of the ppe-de group ;
human rights in tunisia- b5-0905 / 2000 by boudjenah and others , on behalf of the gue / ngl group ;
i also express the support of our group for the amendment from the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left on the non-interference of military powers in the process .
i am pleased because i think that , when it is not a vulgar sham , a hunger strike is a suicidal undertaking which my personal beliefs forbid me from encouraging .
some , such as béchir habid , are in a critical condition .
even if a few passports have been returned , even if president ben ali delivered a speech on the freedom of the press and improved prison conditions on the anniversary of his taking power , there has been a marked deterioration in the human rights situation in tunisia .
the young student béchir habid has been on hunger strike since 18 october .
i witnessed powers being handed over within the human rights league a week before it was placed in official receivership .
public declarations were made after these events deploring the use of violence and supporting measures to bring to justice those found to be responsible for it .
on the financial front , and this responds directly to the important point made by the honourable member and it is an area where we have some experience in other countries , commission representatives in tunis are stepping up their efforts to launch very soon two programmes : one in support of journalists and the other in support of non-governmental organisations .
if this policy continues , there will be a bloodbath , just like the bloodbaths we have seen in other countries .
in order for the elections to really unblock the current situation , we first need to create the conditions for those elections to be held in a climate of civil peace and reconciliation .
mr ouattara is not ivorian and it is perfectly normal , as it would be in each of our own countries , for côte d 'ivoire to refuse to allow people who are not ivorian citizens to hold office .
during the debate on the british submarine in gibraltar you indicated that the gibraltar public safety scheme document would be made available to colleagues of the house .
i shall take your speech as an appeal for more assiduous attendance .
however , extensive early retirement and various graduated terms of retirement presuppose a massive revision of these policies because not all of them are socially inspired .
that reminds me of the debate in the sixties about keeping us women out of the labour market .
mr president , like the rapporteur , whom i must congratulate , i too shall take as my starting point the obvious statement that , in terms of the population pyramid , europe is an ageing continent .
as a member of the friday club - which admittedly is not an official group but in practice does exist - i am one of the hosts of the members present today , as you are , and i hope that we will also manage this next year .
not everyone can or should retire voluntarily from working life .
from this point of view , campaigns for information provision and promotion , cofinanced by the european union and the member states , are essential both to help restore the somewhat tarnished image of agriculture in the eyes of consumers and , moreover , to bring about recognition of the excellent quality of the very great majority of our agricultural products .
it cannot reasonably be the taxpayers ' and the european union ' s business to finance advertising campaigns to encourage people , for example , to buy tulips or eat more apples .
the final group of amendments which the commission cannot accept are amendments which are at odds with the proposal , those which could have unwelcome consequences and those in which administrative procedures are proposed which are not customary practice .
in those times , the rule of saint benedict required monks to drink one ' hemina ' , or about half a pint , of wine before meals in order to awaken the spirit and aid digestion .
