with an eye to recent events , the issue of petrol prices also seems to me to be particularly noteworthy .
at present , the council is talking about incorporating such mechanisms in article 7 .
secondly , it lies in its transparency for the public , who now know what rights they have in respect of those who create and apply european law , and in its transparency for those who do precisely that , draft or apply european law .
i agree with him that the commission must continue to play a pivotal role as guardian of the common interests of the community .
that is why i believe it is very important for the chairman of the eurogroup - which we chose to set up - to continue to play a full role in this area .
i for my part believe that it is precisely for this reason that the convention method is a good one and that ample use should again be made of it in the future .
the debate is closed .
amendments nos 10 , 11 and 15 are acceptable in principle .
however , this reduction of parliament 's influence is acceptable given the highly technical nature of the issues concerned and the commission 's endeavours to inform the ep in good time of plans to draw up new regulations via its competent standing committees .
these buses may have access to that country , but in practice , they will be unable to reach many places .
the most difficult problem facing this new charter is not its actual content but whether it has legal status .
we believe that , as a political document , the charter is a good point of departure for this wholly necessary dialogue , which is now about to begin .
that would be an interim solution which would make it possible to work towards a binding charter in the long term .
. ( fr ) i voted against incorporating the version of the charter of fundamental rights we have before us into the treaties .
for this reason , it must be clear that full satisfaction of the copenhagen criteria is the only essential point .
in this respect , i wish to congratulate the european parliament on the work accomplished in the reform of a report devoted to each of the twelve candidate countries which have entered into negotiations , and an overall report by mr brok , which i shall have the opportunity to comment on in further detail in my speech .
i am , of course , thinking of the common agricultural policy and the regional development policies .
it is not , of course , impossible that the candidate countries will seize this opportunity to once again bring up , as you said , mr president - the subject of the dates for enlargement .
enlargement is a historic undertaking .
but success does not depend on the time factor alone , however important it may be .
and if they do not apply throughout europe , then they are in jeopardy throughout europe .
chapters are opened and closed depending on the current state of preparations and actual progress in negotiations .
as far as the internal market is concerned , we must ensure that transitional periods are kept to a minimum in terms of both time and content .
we need political answers to political questions and we need to get them across properly .
imagine how we would struggle to resolve the issue of kosovo , bosnia herzegovina or our relations with serbia in a state of cold war .
we should start with a debate involving our own people .
our group requires target dates to be set at the nice summit or immediately afterwards , by which negotiations on membership should be concluded .
mr president , our group , the european united left / nordic green left , shares many of the considerations and opinions on enlargement contained in mr brok ' s report and we appreciate the enormous effort he has put into his courageous report .
in company with a large number of other members , i greatly appreciated president prodi ' s declarations and i took note of mr moscovici ' s words when , with diplomatic caution , he too warned us not to expect much in the way of results over the next two or three months .
i would therefore ask the minister and the commissioner to take account of this and adjust their speaking times accordingly .
my own conclusion is that we should discuss it more , but also discuss it properly and better .
that being said , i think it was not a bad idea to ask the question .
but the fact remains that , as things stand today , 3 october 2000 , i cannot tell you when any single country in the accession process will be ready for accession .
thank you very much for that clarification , commissioner .
in that case , it will , in my view , have failed in its mission and purpose .
it is now that we are in a position to secure common values and benefits .
imagine if such radical economic and social change had taken place in your own country in such a short space of time .
it is still hot air , mr verheugen ; the actual agencies responsible for the project have not even noticed it exists .
the macro-economic situation is now stabilising .
if , for example , we place a question mark over whether it will be possible for the citizens and workers of candidate countries to move freely across the european union right from the word go , if we want to continue to deny the citizens of eastern europe recognition of that right which is one of the fundamental principles of the union , then we are further diminishing support for the difficult reforms which must take place before they can join the union .
i was delighted that my report was adopted unanimously in committee on 14 september .
i think i can say that this report , which has been duly discussed and improved upon in the committee on foreign affairs , security and defence policy where it received unanimous approval , describes and analyses extremely thoroughly the current stage of hungary ' s path towards accession , in its dual approach to the issue .
the suspicion of corruption is a most destructive force and it must be tackled as a matter of urgency .
europe must become a responsible player in finding a solution to the cyprus question .
financial support under the pre-accession strategy is fundamental for malta , as is the knowledge that financial aid for malta should comply with the rules which apply to the other candidate countries .
once the conditions have been fulfilled , there is no reason why either candidate countries or the countries currently members of the euro should object to candidate countries entering the third stage of economic and monetary union .
you might say that i represent a region which , ten years ago , represented a good part of enlargement to the east - i too lived on the other side of the iron curtain .
if we are to have a common information area , we must make huge joint efforts in this sector .
my report on the committee ' s opinion therefore talks not only of what the candidate countries have to do but also of what the european union has to do .
but now to the right signals .
we must ensure that the present rail infrastructure in central and eastern europe is not replaced by road transport , resulting in a great deal of effort at a later date in an attempt to put things right .
this ' no ' will now be analysed carefully in the days to come .
this is how we came to go through the text , and attempted to cut down on certain items in the process .
it makes little sense to start to doubt in public the value , including the direct value at a material level , of this enlargement .
if there is a need for long transitional arrangements on certain points , then let us have long transitional arrangements .
first , the democratic wish of the countries and people in question must be respected after their accession to the eu .
they are wrong because prosperity is not generated by the european union and its 80 000 pages of directives and regulations .
the increasingly strong reservations expressed by our peoples and denmark ' s recent rejection of the euro serve to remind us of that .
in the opinion on the brok report , for which i was responsible and which has been backed by the committee on budgets , the conclusion is the same .
we therefore call upon the rapporteur , the commission and the council to supplement the agricultural policy section with the fisheries policy section , for example by changing the title ' agricultural aspects of enlargement ' to ' agricultural and fisheries aspects of enlargement ' .
it is better to have a sound accession at a slightly later date than a premature one which proves inadequate .
it is for us to determine a communication strategy for enlargement , through words and deeds .
commissioner verheugen ' s idea of a referendum on enlargement was heavily criticised , and the reason is obvious : those who have to pay cannot be let to decide on the matter .
in the face of the twofold challenge of both the enlargement , which must enable europe to come to terms with itself , and the institutional reform , which must increase democracy and efficiency within the institutions , the european union now , as it often does , stands at an important turning point in its history .
above all though , i would like to bring various expectations and reservations that i have , to the attention of the council , which , i am sorry to say , is largely absent .
this dialogue would also contribute to the creation of the necessary administrative capacity for the effective management of the country , creating structures which do not currently exist and reducing cases of corruption .
malta should be represented by a minimum of six meps , like the other smaller member states .
neither can we base enlargement on the idea that a given applicant naturally has priority over another as if , without it , the whole process could not start at all .
we only hope that the tremendous efforts made by the government of late will be reflected in the next commission report .
mr president , i come from a country , sweden , in which there is still quite a lot of scepticism about the eu project .
the points raised by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy in the brok report are the steps we need to take to this end , and it is essential that we take them if we are to counteract any slowing of the pace on the european environmental policy front .
the sapard programme provides an excellent opportunity to this end , and i welcome with open arms the fact that the commission has already approved six programmes .
my group announced its desire to see the first negotiations concluded by 2003 , making accession possible by june 2004 .
i will now use my second minute to talk about slovenia .
mr president , there was relatively little comment regarding elmar brok ' s idea expressed today of an arrangement similar to the eea agreement as an alternative for those applicant countries that do not meet the copenhagen criteria .
the candidate countries should also be encouraged to participate in the community programmes for equal opportunities , and particularly those concerned with violence against women .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting
if we are to preserve the balance between the institutions , i believe we must take steps to ensure that this defect is rectified .
we are discussing a serious matter .
my report supports this .
let me make a suggestion to the commission as to how this problem could be tackled .
the crises of recent years have made everyone , including ourselves , more keenly aware of the situation .
we all want the same thing and we have to say this very clearly here in parliament .
where heavy metals are concerned , there are many inconsistencies .
but remember , ladies and gentlemen , that the legitimacy of our community institutions and our own legitimacy depend entirely on the will of the peoples whom it is our duty to represent .
the commission has now proposed deleting the derogation for compound foodstuffs and having the option of fixing action thresholds below the maximum permitted limits in cases of real emergency .
i should like to conclude by dealing briefly with two problems relating to the declaration .
moreover , in my eyes a crime is a crime !
however , let me first address the amendments with which the commission cannot agree .
the basic directive 95 / 53 already stipulates in article 19 that penalties for non-compliance shall be commensurate and have a deterrent effect and when a responsibility is proven in the court civil and / or criminal liability apply .
we believe that complete transparency for farmers is essential .
we must create a realistic statutory framework .
mr president , the proposal before us and the rapporteur ' s reaction to this proposal are a step in the right direction but , at the same time , they expose the weak structure of european enforcement .
i believe that reversal of the burden of proof , as proposed in amendment no 4 , is absolutely essential if these aims are to be achieved .
finally , in relation to amendment no 6 , this amendment is not acceptable as it falls outside the scope of this directive .
( parliament gave its assent to considering the oral amendment ) ( parliament adopted the resolution )
secondly , that the candidate countries continue to make the good progress that they are making towards meeting the copenhagen criteria and towards the full and complete enforcement of the acquis communautaire in advance of accession .
to return to the budgetary aspect , i think it is crucial that we study the budgetary consequences of such a large number of new member states joining before the end of the current financial cycle in 2006 .
it is unfortunate that the report has taken no account at all of the position and conditions of women in the adjustment process .
what this report is actually proposing is to enlarge an economic market .
there is a risk of the european union being watered down politically and of social dumping , and , lastly , that the project of european integration will be reduced to the creation of one large marketplace , an area of free competition .
on paper , a great deal has been achieved in the area of equality of treatment and equal opportunities for men and women , but how do things stand in practice ?
the enlargement of the european union to include the ten countries of eastern europe plus malta and cyprus is a great project .
secondly , enlargement inevitably involves revision of the european union 's financial perspectives , which were conceived and established before the prospect of enlargement was even on the horizon .
mr president , i am very pleased to be able to announce that i voted for the measure on estonia 's application for membership of the european union .
i note that latvia is making progress to meeting both the copenhagen criteria and meeting the obligations of the acquis communautaire .
i note that lithuania is making good progress to meeting both the copenhagen criteria and meeting the obligations of the acquis communautaire .
moreover , poland fully respects human rights and fundamental freedoms .
well done to the hungarian republic !
i hope slovenia will be in the first group of new members .
this is , moreover , made clear by the conclusions of the helsinki european council , which affirm , in the final analysis , that solution of the ' cyprus question ' is not a necessary precondition for accession .
we must effectively be vigilant in this area as animal feedingstuffs are the first link in the food chain .
i should point out to members that the council working group agreed unanimously to recommend to the council that the type of committee in the action programme should be modified to a mixed committee , a combination of the management and advisory procedures , thereby increasing the power of the individual member states .
i understand their concerns , but i have assurances from the commission that ngos will still be able to bid for funds on this and other programmes and initiatives managed by the commission .
that is why it is quite essential for the groups listed in article 13 to be effectively protected against discrimination .
fourthly , the involvement of the two sides of industry .
it has been brought home very strongly to me how we much need one in the light of the article 13 hearings .
indeed , equal treatment is a fundamental constitutional right which forms one of the cornerstones of the european union .
ladies and gentlemen , we are all aware of the budgetary pressures that exist within category 3 expenditure , which includes this and other programmes .
we heard them years ago on equal pay for women , we heard them on all equal opportunities legislation , on improvements in maternity leave , we heard them in connection with the race directive before the summer , and so we should carry on regardless .
it touches upon the theme of pluralism , the importance of which to the proper functioning of our democracy is recognised by many .
i would , in fact , like to seize the opportunity also to congratulate mr cashman , because although directives are important , action programmes are , of course , essential too in terms of the support they lend to directives .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , both rapporteurs have done an excellent job , for which i want to thank them here on behalf of my group .
i think that would create greater uncertainty because we would no longer know who could actually be assisted in line with the commission programme .
mr president , commissioner , our group has evaluated both reports with positive results and would , in particular , like to emphasise the fact that we have all focused on the need to expand the programme 's scope with a series of amendments - which , in actual fact , have led to another survey on discrimination - intended to guarantee equal treatment to all people , irrespective of their sex , race , ethnic origin , religion , personal convictions , age or sexual orientation .
on the other hand , however , for forty years there have been texts in existence which are actually based on discrimination .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , as is well known , many forms of discrimination still remain in the european union , specifically in employment and professional activities , even though they are prohibited under article 13 of the eu treaty .
otherwise , the initiatives will not succeed in the real world .
lastly , the european parliament must be kept informed , taking account of the reports and opinions produced by this house , and we must highlight the importance and necessity of truly making use of the opinion and participation of the ngos and associations - and providing them with the necessary resources - since they are without doubt the key to the success of the measures adopted .
the provision according to which the notion of professional , essential and crucial requirement may justify exemptions on the grounds of religion is not , in my view , acceptable .
as you know , last november the commission proposed a broad package based on article 13 with two directives and a programme .
in short , therefore , i can accept either as drafted or in spirit amendments nos 1 , 2 , 7 , 8 , 10 , 11 , 13 , 18 , 21 , 41 to 45 , 47 , 50 , 58 , 59 , 62 , 64 , 65 , 66 and 67 .
in my view , with these two additions , the scope of the proposal becomes clear .
i would like to refer in detail to those amendments which i cannot accept because they present political or legal difficulties .
this directive must be part of the social acquis in the applicant countries .
i wholeheartedly welcome these developments .
i urge all other governments to do the same .
sweden does not believe that activity within cfsp can be described as a defence policy because it does not involve any common defence obligation corresponding to nato ' s paragraph 5 .
the eu code of conduct establishes a set of detailed principles governing conventional arms exports .
the european union is committed to combating the destabilising accumulation of small arms in many parts of the world .
may i thank the rapporteur again for his excellent report , which provides a great deal of useful guidance on how to develop our policy in this extremely important area .
mr president , i would like to thank the commissioner for his introduction but i am still left with a few questions .
you , who have experience , will perhaps say that this has already been stated several times .
commissioner , i would like to thank you for being here today and for your statement .
i would also like to state my concern at the very low level of commitment of cohesion fund appropriations at the end of august - only 16 % , mrs torres marques - and , while things have changed for the better since the end of august , i would like to reiterate this concern , which i shared with parliament ' s committee on regional policy , transport and tourism on 11 september .
but i think , mr barnier - and i am sorry to say this - you are not very well informed .
could you give us the figures for spain and greece ?
however , this proposal instead met with heavy protest from certain member states .
if the fuel costs of a company like that are more than double those of multinational companies with other bases elsewhere in scotland which can bid for the same contracts , obviously this severely distorts competition , to the disadvantage of outlying communities .
given the community 's commitment to meeting its kyoto commitments , i wonder whether the commissioner would accept that the best way of doing so is by higher fuel duties , as opposed to raising the other transport costs .
while no amount is specifically set aside for minority languages as part of these activities , this does not prevent these programmes being used for that purpose .
every year , more than one million children are forced into prostitution .
as regards compensation , the member states and the commission take the view that the public authorities and the private economic operators will each bear the costs of the changeover in their respective fields .
mr president , very briefly , 11 countries have accepted the euro .
i would like the commissioners to say a little bit more about the specific issue of infringement proceedings against italy .
the commission services are currently preparing a draft commission directive covering these issues and including cotton seed .
this is a matter which , strictly speaking , falls largely within the competence of my colleague , mr liikanen .
mr president , i am grateful to the commissioner for that information and for some signs of progress in the study of this issue .
the spanish prime minister - mr aznar - is to make an official visit to that country in october .
the living conditions of people in burma , thanks to the appalling government under which they suffer , are bad enough as it is and i would not like to do anything that made those living conditions worse .
when i was in kosovo the other day i was very struck by those who told me that the initial stages of the election campaign had been conducted with considerable professionalism and style .
that concludes question time .
there should be in-depth multilateral consultations before one country can grant a licence that another has rejected .
mr president , i am pleased to see so many members of the public here today because , as everyone up there can see , there are very few people down here at this time of night .
one of the problems parliament has faced in recent years is a lack of standardised information on financial control from the institutions .
" the commission 's challenge will be to convince parliament that it can create those safeguards .
we expect great gains from that .
if even the slightest impression could arise that the controller might no longer be independent , that is reason enough for us to split this function again .
so i can only underline again that we have developed a very accurate procedure for checking whether the individual directorates-general that are to be responsible for this ex ante control in future are in a position to conduct it .
we do not intend to replace anyone who is doing a good job at national level , but we do want to introduce common criteria and minimum requirements at community level and propose rules that help people effectively to implement measures to protect minors in their country .
in his splendid major speech yesterday , president of the commission romano prodi mentioned that , for the sake of the eu ' s political legitimacy in the future , it will be necessary to produce a list of those subjects the eu is to deal with and those which the member states are to deal with .
the commission will respond to this invitation because , as you know , we are due to table the ' television without frontiers ' directive again in 2002 , with a view to testing the water .
we have to ensure that the experiences of young people - students and others in the educational world - are positive .
i hope that the main amendments adopted by the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport will be received positively by the council , as they deserve to be , and that legislation is speedily brought into effect .
freedom of movement for persons , goods , services and capital is enshrined in our treaties and yet young people , who are the future of the european union and perhaps have fewer prejudices than some of us adults are denied opportunities because of the bureaucratic barriers put in their way .
precisely for that reason i am still very surprised to see how many obstacles remain to greater mobility and flexibility in europe .
so , in spite of the persistent problems , of which i am aware , these programmes are of positive value and contribute something to the people of europe .
thank you very much , commissioner reding .
today , i am here to talk about balanced participation by men and women in all areas of society .
the beijing platform for action and the final outcome document of the united nations general assembly special session on beijing + 5 , last june , are along the same lines .
to give you a couple of examples : at the education council there is the issue of mobility of men and women students and teachers , because we have recognised that there is major inequality in mobility ; and at the internal market , consumption and tourism council there is an item on the development of electronic commerce so as to make it accessible to all , both men and women , because we know there is gender inequality in electronic commerce too .
the first is devoted to the general principle of the equality of all persons under the law .
i would therefore prevail upon the president-in-office of the council , both the current and the forthcoming ones , as well as upon the commissioner , to be alert to this aspect , for i believe that it is absolutely fundamental to our work that we make a very big effort in this area .
if one examines women ' s equality policy now , it seems to me , as we are all gathered here - and , of course , most of the people attending and taking part in the discussion are women - that while we are all naturally trying our utmost , we are also aware that european women ' s equality policy is threatening to lose its momentum .
some problem areas : women often have two jobs , unemployment is higher among women , childcare has deteriorated , there are too few women in decision-making positions , violence against women is on the increase in many candidate countries and several candidate countries are at the centre of the increasing trade in women .
we need to be sure that what is decided in strasbourg is real progress .
other members of this parliament had to take up the pen to put things right , and poland thanked them for it .
bringing up children , especially transferring standards and values , is of vital importance to our society .
firstly , improvements are called for in the existing directives , for example those covering equality of opportunity in the sphere of social security , with respect to public and company schemes .
i would support the request of the committee on women 's rights in this report for a major study of women in the eu and in the candidate countries as a starting point for future work .
this is therefore an incredibly important issue for us to get to grips with .
mr president , i will not reply individually , except to mrs torres marques , because her question is really direct and personal .
fourth point : the issues of the future .
secondly , because they allow us to make a comparative assessment of the member states and a comparative assessment of the overall progress of the european union over time .
therefore , while recognising , as the council and the commission have said , that this amendment was not appropriate in this case , i would like to , once again , take the opportunity to point out that the procedures for monitoring imports in the european union are not working , that fraud is being committed and that this fraud is not only bad for community taxpayers , but also for the functioning of the internal market , and even for loyalty to third countries .
this opens the door to a major reform of economic customs systems , on which , in fact , parliament will be informed in detail in the next couple of months prior to approval .
yesterday the whole position changed with the position the commission has taken on the legal base .
mr president , we are delighted to welcome you to the european parliament and we hope you enjoy your visit .
european rights of citizenship do not seem to carry much weight in this situation .
they have risen above party politics and shown that , when an amendment is right , they will support it , whoever the author .
the provision for derogation on religious grounds on the basis of the notion of essential and direct occupational requirements carries the risk of broad interpretation .
in parallel , the amendment extending the exception to the principle of non-discrimination to the wider ' social ' activities of religious organisations , where the discrimination is solely based on religious conviction and on no other grounds , is a reinforcement of the specific nature and original contribution of these structures as compared with public or private services .
the eplp has voted for the mann report on equal treatment in discrimination because it is firmly committed to the principle of combating unjustified discrimination and is broadly supportive of the overall objectives behind this proposal .
we are concerned about the inclusion of health , social security and assistance as there are considerable national differences in how these matters are handled and whether they form part of the employee / employer relationship .
we , in europe , along with our colleagues across the globe , have to see that the mistakes and greed of the past are not repeated .
the report sees arms export controls primarily as a method of avoiding awkward situations for europe ' s military industry and not as a way of achieving disarmament and peace .
- ( sv ) it is good that the european union wishes to implement a code of conduct to restrict arms exports .
encouraging industry to move in this direction through international collaboration and increasing parents ' , teachers ' and children ' s awareness will act as a catalyst .
finally , i invite the member states to pursue the dual strategy advocated at community level , involving mainstreaming and specific actions for women .
the next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance .
mr president , commissioner , i believe that the events in peru are evidence of the world of difference that there can be between the formal meaning of words and their tangible weight .
it appears as if it is simply a question of groups of men who find themselves in a world in which nothing else counts but their own solidarity and their own oppression of women .
but as mr linkohr was saying , the problem with latin america is that we only concern ourselves with these countries when there are problems .
since then the situation has got even worse for the community there .
unfortunately , it was , of course , the case that the problem was not resolved under the last government , in the run-up to 1998 .
that is a real step forward for macedonia .
that is why the commission has repeatedly urged the macedonian government to resolve the outstanding problem of higher education in the albanian language .
i should like to say , as far as the resolution is concerned , because there are a number of amendments , that my amendment on shipping registers is covered in the text , it is already there .
it is particularly tragic since this tragedy can also be put down to the lifting of eu legislation .
it is the commission ' s job to monitor the practical application of this legal framework within its remit as set out in the treaty .
it seems to me that a curious discrepancy is starting to take shape .
i will not hide from you the fact that the situation is not easy , and that we are going to experience a certain degree of tension in the next few days , but everyone needs to keep calm so that the situation does not develop into a serious conflict .
we cannot be harsh enough in condemning the disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force .
at the moment , we have the belgrade parliament in flames - we know what setting a parliament on fire means in the context of european history , and we know the responsibility held by leaders that lead their people to disaster .
but the rights of the palestinian state are no less important .
the events of the last few days demonstrate exactly how fragile the peace process is .
the commission and the council will do their part and that is what is currently at the top of the agenda in yugoslavia and that is what we have been interested in all along .
i would also like to say - and this is more of an appeal to the council , but i am sharing it with the commission and parliament for now - let us not just make fine declarations with regard to the aid which we will soon be willing to grant to serbia , but let us also make room for this cause in our own budget , the european union ' s budget , so that we do not end up concluding that we can only help serbia by taking funding away from other projects in the balkans which need our support .
secondly , the euro is an artificial currency and it would be a disaster to make a complete changeover to the euro in the present circumstances .
parliament must today decide a very simple matter : whether croatia should join that group of countries to which the european investment bank may grant loans with an eu guarantee .
in the budgetary procedure for 2001 , our political group has maintained a strategy of pursuing a marked improvement in the quality of expenditure and an improvement in the mechanisms for monitoring its performance .
hopefully , the signs of hope in croatia and now also in yugoslavia will encourage us to find a solution to the problems of the budget and its financial perspectives .
croatia started building a democracy as long as ten years ago .
to this end , we must at last conclude an association agreement with croatia , which will spell out that this is a european country that has a definite future as a member of the european union .
this is why it would be useful to make the necessary arrangements at this stage .
in the feasibility report on a stabilisation and association agreement with croatia , compiled in may 2000 , the commission reaches the conclusion that the conditions for taking up negotiations with croatia have been fulfilled .
after many years of difficulties for this people - all kinds of difficulties - we are at last , extremely democratically , beginning to welcome serbia back into the community of the peoples of the european union .
are there any further comments on the minutes ?
i think applying the minute rule is the least damaging solution , in the final analysis , as we have , in fact , seen .
as for mr le pen , what an affront to the dignity of the european parliament and for any true democrat to hear mr le pen using the word ' dignity ' !
we would , however , like to request that it be deferred for a third time for political reasons .
we are doing exactly the same as we have already done in the case of forest and plant material , i.e. we are making reference to the horizontal directive .
and i am quoting word for word from the letter dated 17 may that you yourself , madam president , read in plenary .
we must be able to see where progress is being made ; this progress must be measurable and the social agenda must be afforded centre stage in the political discussion at european level .
i am convinced that europe will only be social when a social dimension is added to economic policy , competition policy , external policy and the entire enlargement discussion .
we are particularly committed to the objective of full employment .
let me just mention the mobility of workers .
we have also managed to bring about a few things in the social sphere , but not everything , and this was because the treaty of amsterdam had not taken effect at the time ; so , in this light , the social action programme or this social agenda is of particular significance .
the urgency of the social situation and the need to defend the european social model call for initiatives that aim to establish rights : the right to an income , the right to a wage , the right to decent pensions for all within the european union .
i believe that the impetus must come from below and that it is a question of providing aid at a problem level .
the priority was given to setting up a common market , with the principle of the free movement of property , goods and capital , the establishment of rules governing competition between firms and state aid .
however , the report says something slightly different : whereas lisbon calls for a reform of the social model , it calls for reinforcement ; whereas lisbon calls for liberation of enterprise and more flexibility , the report proposes four new or amended directives and a number of legislative initiatives .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , there are two people here today who deserve special congratulations , one being anna lancker , for her outstanding report , and the other being anna diamantopoulou , for her outstanding submission .
i think that there is also a great advantage , if we succeed in getting the directive applied , modified and updated , with regard to maternity leave : for women to receive help during maternity and for maternity to be protected when women have to continue working during that period .
these two political approaches underpin the entire content .
the problem is that , because of the legal basis which it has in the treaty , the social agenda does not constitute a set of laws , a set of directives with specific steps for the member states .
this work has gone quite quickly despite the fact that it took a little time at the beginning .
problems to do with access to social security must be looked at on a case-by-case basis to this end .
it encompasses all those areas where action is needed and , if successfully coordinated , could make a real difference to women in all aspects of their everyday lives .
that would be the logical way to implement the gender mainstreaming concept .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
that is not good enough .
the single market is essential in terms of promoting the interests of consumers .
i will cite one of several examples , and it is one that is currently the subject of intense debate in other regions besides my own .
certainly , a good deal has happened in the last 200 years or so , but we have the same aspirations today .
and , naturally , these are clearly statements to which the ears of the various ministers for the treasury in europe are extremely sensitive .
on a final note , we need a more precise definition of the relevant market because , increasingly , the market is not the national market .
particular attention was paid to the concerns expressed by parliament regarding renationalisation and legal certainty .
what we have to work together for is to gradually establish in the marketplace the reality of a single market going beyond the national market .
and so i only spoke on behalf of my group , and not for parliament as a whole .
the aim of this commission report is to provide a basis for examining the single facility providing medium-term financial support and for revising it , should this prove necessary .
you can check it in the verbatim report of proceedings .
both options remain on the table , and must be assessed in the light of their potential for ensuring that the common interests of the community are safeguarded .
ladies and gentlemen , we must find a solution to these two issues , which will in fact only be resolved when negotiations are complete , and on which we must reach total agreement if that agreement is to mean anything at all .
this was a positive signal .
the president-in-office of the council has spoken of the spirit of nice .
this is an important topic for current and future member states .
madam president , firstly i praise the european council for accepting the draft charter as definitive .
i would also express the wish of my group and of a good many ngos to see the charter evolve and continue to improve , in order to guarantee , amongst other things , more effective protection and rights for the citizens of the european union , for employees , for the citizens of third countries and for the socially marginalised .
this is the only way to restore a true balance between the various institutions of the european union .
one might have expected somewhat better weather conditions , but i feel that the climate inside the european council , at which i was present from start to finish , was a little better than the commissioner has said .
the objective is truly one of strengthening the community framework .
that is the reason why we hear so much talk of smaller and larger states .
there is a pressing need to equip the union with a point of reference based on the content of this charter .
we all know that enlargement of the union cannot take place until decision-making procedures within the key institutions are reformed ; however , such a reform process must be fair and balanced .
our debate today also has the same ring to it .
progress has also been made with article 7 on combating violations of the basic values of the european union .
a further point is the commission reforms .
if they were to be complied with , the large countries ' demands for increased power in the council and parliament would upset the whole balance within the eu and mean that the small countries would have to pay for the whole cost of enlargement .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i regret that mr barón crespo has not remained in the chamber after pointing the finger at the political force which i represent .
we must recognise that the smaller states are on an equal footing with the larger ones in this union of states , and that we must find other ways to redress the balance for the larger states .
the question we must answer is whether all the countries will have a commissioner at the same time , and thus whether we are to have a big - and one day a very big - commission that will inevitably have been restructured , or if they are all to have one commissioner but not necessarily at the same time .
i have specifically mentioned some of the factors that will enable us to ascertain immediately whether the reform is sufficient or not .
with peace guaranteed , western europe has started to attend to business in search of prosperity .
we want a proper constitution .
finally , we need reinforced cooperation that is open , not closed , and which includes rather than excludes those current or future members that do not sign up immediately - a form of reinforced cooperation that acts as an impetus instead of creating further obstacles .
we are not asking for anything specific or tangible ; we are not asking for funding : we are simply calling for this principle of island status to be universally accepted , so that the citizens of the european union can all start the race on an equal footing , with equal chances of reaching the finish line .
i feel we cannot talk properly about a constitution and plan ways to draw it up until we know what we want to put in it .
several members of this house , but also representatives of member states have already pointed out that the traditional method of the intergovernmental conference was certainly not the best method .
then there would no longer be any preliminary work at all on our part .
following the nice summit , which we all hope will be successful , it is important to take this next step in order to create a more democratic union .
after all , it is unacceptable for the fifteen member states alone to discuss and decide on a constitution , when we all know full well that by the end of this decade the european union will have 27 members .
but if this future is shared , then obviously they are together .
the danger , however , is that reinforced cooperation will break up the unity of europe through the back door , resulting in a patchwork of intergovernmental cooperation .
i will not take this into consideration .
what is the meaning of the expression " the deadline within which member states are required to guarantee unemployed individuals a chance to access an active employment measure should not exceed two years " , if not a threat to unemployment benefits ?
in principle , the decentralised application of community law can only be a success if there are strong commitments given that this will be uniformly applied across all the territories of the european union .
state aids have been traditionally used by member states as instruments of industrial and social policy .
i am less pleased with the idea expressed in paragraph 2 that state aid should not go up .
section v , court of auditors ;
even the commission ' s estimate of payments for the preliminary draft budget has been very cautious , too cautious as far as we are concerned .
thirdly , at the end of the day , the taxpayers must get added value for their money .
in fact we are directly linked to the interest rate set by the european central bank , which is why we have proposed that we should pursue the buildings policy already adopted , because this will help to release us from this burden of interest as soon as possible .
the economic and social committee is still a real problem child .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the ecsc treaty will expire in june 2002 .
this seems odd to us because there will still be an operational budget in the second part of 2002 , and so we are calling for a review of the relationship between redeployment aid and social aid .
we believe that this declaration should be included in the interinstitutional agreement , but in any case , i would like to say to you that it only makes sense within the context of an interinstitutional agreement with a financial perspective .
this to me is also taking an extreme view .
one of the conditions imposed was that the comitology procedure must be changed .
we shall support his and chris patten ' s attempt to strengthen the commission ' s effectiveness by means of parliamentary scrutiny and the necessary parliamentary control to which the council and mr solana are not of course subject .
the first of these is for the implementation of a pilot project intended to fund an information campaign within the fifteen member states against the criminal scourge of paedophilia .
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has requested expert reports on this , with a view to receiving appropriate advice from the european central bank on the financial aspect .
the proposals put forward by our committee and supported by the committee on budgets are much better .
it is the duty of the house to give those points their support in the vote this week , to demonstrate its continued commitment to protecting the environment and improving public health .
all parties must assume their responsibilities and fulfil their obligations .
we must also bear in mind that all this is related to the fight against domestic violence , which is taking place under the daphne programme .
there are no better guardians of the treaties than the european citizens .
the context of our debate today is that we must use whatever opportunity we have in our budget to make sure that our european institutions are ready for the next stage of enlargement , both in terms of the institutions ' structures as well as improved policy management .
before coming to that , a word on the position of the british conservatives .
we understand that there is a need for more personnel , but what is of most concern to us is that we do not grant this request until the reform process of the institutions is well under way .
but we have made promises in the past , or rather made announcements and formulated common policies that will in fact need to be converted into payments at some stage .
let there be no mistake , i think it is criminal to give people who have been affected by natural disasters the impression that we have the means to solve all the problems they face as a result .
even though we endorse many of the points of criticism directed at the council , it is clear that a strategy of this kind would lead to a politically untenable confrontation and undermine the credibility of the european institutions .
we fear that the majority of the committee members have used the wrong tactics .
mrs haug , the general rapporteur also attempted , last night , to amend her report in this respect in order to reflect the concerns expressed by my group , and i must thank her for that .
we must give the commission the opportunity to eliminate the backlog by increasing its staffing levels .
we are trying to safeguard parliament ' s priorities in category 4 .
( laughter and applause )
it is up to the colombian authorities to define the practical means by which the colombian government might undertake to dismantle the paramilitary groups .
i think i have already answered this question .
i should not like you to think that the council does not answer the questions asked of it .
with reference to any discussions it may have held with the ministers for economic and financial affairs of the eu member states and of third countries , will the council presidency say who is opposed to this measure and what the main political and technical obstacles are to the introduction of a tax of this kind ?
mr president , i do not refute your own personal convictions .
i am sorry .
the council is actively involved in examining the commission proposal and these amendments with a view to managing in the near future to issue a position on this .
thank you for your answer , mr president , but the question went rather further .
mr president , commissioner , i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur .
then it was not known that the council and the commission would be promising aid for the reconstruction of serbia and kosovo , to come out of this money .
there are poor people in europe too , even if only retired farm workers .
external needs reveal the shortages in category 4 .
we are now at first reading and you have enough time to seek full agreement with parliament .
we can only be transparent and accountable if all the decision-makers are clear about the budget and what lies behind the budget .
as elected representatives , we are of course delighted with any move to make the budget more easily understandable .
there is , however , a popular demand that we solve the problem of how best to provide aid to serbia .
i welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this important debate and to dwell on the importance of the agricultural budget and its relevance not just to farmers but to society in general .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , first of all , i would , of course , like to thank all rapporteurs .
political stability depends upon the improvement of living conditions .
the finance ministers did , of course , receive significantly larger sums of money back from last year ' s budget .
for sweden , this would involve approximately eur 65 million .
our group relates the strategy for the general budget to the quality of spending and efficient management , and this also extends to the ecsc budget .
but my main point is about the acp .
instead , these subsidies must be removed step by step , though on condition that the farmers concerned are given structural aid for the purpose of switching production to other goods .
i say without apology that i am going to address the effects that the european union has had in my region .
the european model considers the protection of personal data to be a fundamental right guaranteed by legally binding rules , based on the principle of peoples ' self-determination of data , that is the principle whereby everyone must be able to decide whether and how personal data concerning him can be collected and used .
i really do hope it is ensured that the regulations will not be applied in that way .
in my opinion , it is clear that we would be closing our eyes to the problem if we set up an authority of this type to cover just the community area , while the main problems arise and will , in future , arise due to third pillar bodies too .
in my opinion , the rapporteur has done everything feasible to extend the possibility , at least of cooperating and probably of exerting influence on this matter , and so we fully support her report .
the european data protection supervisor will in fact play a leading role in community institutions ' respecting the provisions protecting citizens ' personal data .
the success of the new community policy to assist the outermost regions calls for action geared to the strategic areas of the world economy : transport , energy , the environment , the information society , research and technological development .
this is why we have so many problems generating wealth and creating employment .
i am therefore pleased that the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism has adopted a bold and ambitious stance on state aid , tax schemes and the implications of enlargement .
mr president , parliament , and in particular its committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , has been the driving force for approving specific policies and programmes for the outermost regions .
consequently , on the occasion of the preparations for the previous intergovernmental conference , they backed the negotiations which - i remember this clearly as i was the french negotiator for the treaty of amsterdam at the time - led to article 299 ( 2 ) being adopted .
indeed , when the time comes , it will be necessary , moreover , to offer the council the same support and the same message .
a partnership day was held on 23 november 1999 , in which many of us participated .
i do not want to reopen that issue .
mr president , mr evans has just referred to yesterday morning ' s vote , specifically to the vote at which certain amendments were adopted by a majority of one .
we are what we eat - and sadly that is true in my case .
decision-making must be clear and transparent .
mr president , let me begin by warmly congratulating the rapporteur , mr bowis , and let me also inform the commissioner , david byrne , that we appreciate the proposals he has put before us in this white paper and the relations he has established with parliament with a view to preparing the best possible legislation in the field of food safety for the future .
it will not be a day when we look with any particular pride at the procedures we then had .
these things are inextricably linked with what the food authority will be doing .
the report is right to draw a distinction between risk analysis on the one hand and risk management on the other .
however , mr president , i should like to highlight two points here .
finally , who better than the member states to inform the public of the risks linked to this or that product ?
not only does the who cover europe it also has a wider remit across the whole planet and this is important .
this makes sense if the european food safety agency is also to be able to operate independently of the commission and if , whenever necessary , it is to take prompt crisis management action .
i have tabled an amendment on this subject , and i hope you will support it .
and the ones who need to do something about this are not so much the commission and ourselves , but rather the member states , who so far have not done their homework .
my group supports most of the amendments .
could a european food safety agency have prevented a dioxin crisis and a bse crisis ?
moreover , no food products which are genetically modified or contain genetically modified ingredients should be allowed into the food chain until they are fully tested , and only then with clear labelling specifications .
for us to be able to restore consumer confidence in the safety of food and maintain it , the food safety agency must start its work with adequate public resources .
mr president , i congratulate john bowis on his excellent work .
i myself do not think this way and trust in the strength and basic principles of european integration throughout the eu .
in addition , part of the body ' s efficiency will consist of transparent decision-making and the swift publication on the internet of its studies and recommendations , as happens with , for example , the food and veterinary office in dublin , which is running extremely smoothly .
i welcome the fact that there is broad agreement on the main principles : that a new scientific body responsible for food safety risk assessment should be established , that it should be independent , accountable , transparent and subject to the needs of objective research and of commercial confidentiality and that it should provide the public with accessible and comprehensible information .
there have even been widely conflicting views about the main point of the white paper , the creation of a food safety agency .
the priority of absolute concern for humans is based on these principles .
upon careful examination of the white paper in the member states and here in parliament , it will then be given legislative status in the form of a new draft directive .
i am encouraged to note the high degree of agreement between parliament 's views as expressed in the draft report that you have debated , and the white paper itself .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , this is not the first time that parliament has tackled the issue of anti-personnel landmines .
the final point concerns the amendments .
in this respect we can only regret the fact that one member state , finland , has not yet signed and another , greece , has not yet proceeded to ratification , as mrs morgantini has just pointed out .
the challenge is enormous , but the extent of this tragedy demands that we make an enormous effort and commitment to put an end to this situation .
after all , the european parliament took the lead in the union in the fight against landmines .
the european union has a clear position , set out in the 1997 joint action on extending signature and ratification of the ottawa convention to as many countries as possible .
similarly , we do not want to create another committee , be it management or advisory .
governments have expressed their commitment and pledged large sums of money .
all the institutions of the eu must work on their own initiative and in a way that the poor countries that suffer worst from the mines problem are effectively included in the programme .
eliminating them is no longer a military problem but a humanitarian issue .
at this point i wish to specifically stress that we need to call upon further states to sign or promptly ratify the ottawa convention , so as to assist international coordination and rehabilitation of mine victims .
i therefore ask that the importance of increasing this amount be conveyed to the council , which is not represented here , and to the commission , given that unfortunately , for each mine that is cleared , between 20 and 50 others are laid .
however , nor should we ignore the fact that the european union , and in particular the european parliament , is increasingly in a position to check more effectively where the money we intend for this purpose is actually going .
for my part , i want to highlight the need to adopt the convention universally so that it may become a total success , firstly by ensuring the compliance of the laws of the various states , so as not to have yet another example of an international agreement that fails to be applied .
this effort must also be made more effective through coordination and monitoring of the processes , giving ngos a more extensive role to play .
the reports give less emphasis to the fact that the majority of those mines were manufactured outside the countries in which they are buried .
i shall be quite appalled if the commission really intends to support these totally unrealistic , almost absurd demands , which have just been approved .
the commission will use its right of initiative and support the member states in bringing necessary changes about .
many of the demands made in the van lancker report are not acceptable .
we in the austrian freedom party have from the outset declared ourselves in favour of a legally binding charter of fundamental rights .
the eplp has consistently not supported incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights as rights are covered by national legislation and the european convention on human rights .
in our view , however , the interpretations of 15 judges , which go beyond the treaties as ratified , are clearly improper and we are still waiting for them to be submitted for the approval of the peoples of the member states .
we should not accept this , whoever uses such language , whether it comes from the extreme right or the extreme left .
as jacques delors rightly pointed out at a meeting of our committee on constitutional affairs scarcely a month ago , the term ' constitution ' is extremely ambiguous .
the uk labour members of the pse group welcome this report without endorsing all of its detail .
removing the conditions which state that closer cooperation must remain within the framework of the treaty and removing the right of veto and the opportunity for bringing the issue up in the european council would constitute a breach of the quite fundamental principles according to which european cooperation in the eu operates .
in fact , although this report tends to introduce a little more flexibility into the highly inflexible system laid down by title vii of the treaty of amsterdam , which is welcome , the final result is still far from adequate .
in fact , europe is finding it more and more difficult to move forward at the same pace .
that is why the large allocation of eu structural funds was made .
if reinforced cooperation proves necessary i am convinced that only the community system offers the necessary guarantees in terms of democratic control , legal controls and solidarity .
we also regret the lack of any reference to , or even mention of , the need to protect biodiversity , which is one of the most important assets of the outermost regions .
similarly , the netherlands and denmark each have two regions in , or on the other side of , the atlantic , but those areas are expressly not included in the european union .
the most important points include the creation of the european food safety agency , which we welcome and of which we expect a great deal .
it was essential for us to give an opinion on an issue that is so important to our fellow citizens .
that is not at all the direction taken by the white paper , which wants to make the european agency into a " scientific point of reference for the whole union " ( page 5 ) .
for my part , in france , i do not need an authority in order to restore my confidence ; i trust the french food safety agency and its opinions , especially in relation to mad cow disease .
whilst i respect people 's democratic right to table amendments , can i just warn members of this house that if some of the amendments which are not in the general framework agreement between the groups are voted , then we will begin to exceed ceilings and we will have to stop the vote .
the vote concerns an amendment tabled by the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party to increase the tobacco subsidy by eur 5 million .
madam president , in that case the amendment will unfortunately have to be put to the vote in the form proposed by the committee on budgets .
we believe that funds for the balkans can instead be taken from the programmes in category 4 that are sadly not fully utilised at present .
we would also like to welcome the fact that parliament has shown itself open to an initiative which , in our opinion , warrants the attention of this house .
it is for this reason that despite having approved this document , i wanted to emphasise in the explanations of vote that next time it would be a good idea to survey and take into consideration the situation in which pensioners in hong kong find themselves compared with pensioners in the peoples ' republic of china , in order to see whether this reunification has been advantageous or detrimental to them .
the rapporteur is right to point out that the european commission ' s original proposal is inadequate .
as everyone knows , life is full of risks and uncertainties .
as a consequence , these companies could have their base anywhere in the european union , even though they are not banks .
that is what they are doing to this day , as we can see from the many complaints made by small and medium-sized businesses and the complaints made by the public about the high charges for transferring small amounts , which are quite simply very much in evidence .
the acceptance of the euro also depends greatly on whether consumers and companies are able to use the euro area as an internal payment zone .
maybe , in fact most probably , the time has come for an internet bank to be set up which does not charge any costs .
madam president , there is a second reason for the european parliament ' s perseverance .
in fact , in time , there should not be a discrepancy at all between cross-border and domestic payments .
that report - and i am turning to mrs peijs in particular - will contain legislative proposals amending the 1997 directive which entered into effect last year .
parliament , in its wisdom , completely shares your view .
until recently , after completing their studies and training , many young people made a choice between going into the civil service or simply into larger companies which are similar to the state .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , after eleven years in this house , i can bear witness to the fact that debates on small and medium-sized businesses in our parliament are neither new nor rare .
i am reminded of what the commissioner said to us a year ago about the experience in the united states , where they are not afraid of failure and they believe in the old scottish proverb of " if at first you don 't succeed , try , try again " .
in many of the 15 member states , persons working on their own account have lower pensions , lower levels of mutual assistance and less industrial injury insurance .
we also need to give careful thought to the level of european governance best adapted to the various initiatives .
mr president , the conclusions of the european council in tampere stress the need to cooperate with countries of origin and transit of migrants and refugees and , within this framework on the council 's instructions , the high-level working group on asylum and migration has drawn up six action plans , one of which is the plan for albania and the neighbouring region .
so bearing all these problems in mind , the proposals set out in my report include : gradual application of the measures proposed in the action plan , a study of the real needs , such as that contained in the first part , which indicates where the most urgent problems lie ; for example , first the economy and democratic institutions need to be developed and infrastructures need to be created in albania and then the union can think about signing refugee and migrant repatriation agreements .
mr president , the action plan states in its analysis that the status quo in albania is worrying .
( applause )
the action programme for albania and its neighbouring regions will enable us to increase stability in the area .
the general affairs council adopted the first five action plans last october , and they concern somalia , sri lanka , afghanistan , morocco , and iraq .
we ask the commission here quite specifically to observe the clear demarcation of responsibilities both between the eu and the member states and within the institutions .
we can accept this point and this report reflects that spirit , in demanding clarity of law , simplicity of law and proportionality of the legal means to the public end sought .
we would actually like the commission to give us more details on the proper application of this principle for each proposal , so that a real balance sheet can be drawn up at the time of the annual report .
mr maccormick stated - it is , in fact , true - that i had said that the principle of subsidiarity was not a legal principle but rather a political principle .
several accomplished speakers from the european people ' s party have already taken the floor to express the views of the group .
that was not a procedural motion but i think you are entitled , as rapporteur , to make that point clear .
the old exchange rate difference between buying and selling has been replaced by a fixed levy per money withdrawal .
on the other hand , having said this , we also maintain that not just any agreement will suffice .
from our standpoint , it is of vital importance that community fishermen resume their activities at a level compatible with the obligation to guarantee sustainable resources .
as a member of the european parliament from the german coast i can comprehend what the fishermen and their families , who have literally been high and dry for months , are going through .
we all knew from the start that it was a difficult negotiation .
fundamental changes are needed so that there is a reduction in global fishing and so that a smaller proportion of the fisheries budget is used for agreements with third countries .
and on the european side , we have the euro-mediterranean partnership , which is being put to the test .
mr president , the absence of mr fischler , which is justified , as the chair of the committee on fisheries made clear earlier , prevents me from going into too much detail .
under this agreement , around 500 boats from the european union , 50 of which are portuguese , have had access to moroccan waters at an annual cost of around eur 125 million .
we must protect the world ' s fish stocks .
in doing so , however , we must not lose sight of the fact that relations between the european union and the transit countries around our borders , and i am thinking in particular here of north africa , turkey and russia , which act as bridges on the borders of the european union to other parts of the world and to other countries - that these countries deserve our particular support .
nonetheless , thank you for your most interesting contribution .
if the commission were truly serious about resolving this issue it would have been resolved years ago .
there are thus two things , which i would not describe as being different , but which are linked together slightly differently over time .
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned and wish you a pleasant weekend .
we are united in shock and grief for the 150 people who died and we share in the pain of their relatives .
( parliament gave its assent ) relating to tuesday :
madam president , my group has listened carefully to this proposal .
b ) sittings of 29 and 30 november 2000 :
i had indicated that i wanted to speak before you closed the discussion on the agenda .
we also support the result of the binding nature of the framework decision , which forces member states to harmonise their laws for the common good whilst being subject to judicial supervision by the court of justice .
moreover , parliament should be represented on the management board of europol and should have a say in the choice of the director of the agency .
in the more specific area of combating money laundering , we could cite the council directive of 10 june 1991 , as recently amended , for which our fellow mep , mr lehne , acted as rapporteur .
i can only say that , as a result , the council did admittedly make a big show of cooperating , but the bulk of the amendments tabled by us and adopted here in this house by a very large majority were not accepted .
in dealing with these matters , our rapporteurs have centred their considerations both on the protocol amending the europol convention and on improving mutual assistance .
and , of course , we must do so on the basis of a common definition of what crime is and of what methods it uses , so that it cannot flee from one country to another , at least not for purely procedural reasons .
i want to speak about the karamanou report on europol .
we have far too many police forces already and we are going to have even more once we have completed enlargement , our ability to deal with organised crime is going to be very much less than it should be .
well , here we have another good example : in combating money laundering we may put at stake something that , far from being a lawyer ' s privilege , is an essential element in this right to a fair trial , which in turn is an essential element in all our european development , culture and identity .
with regard to a compromise situation on this issue , there are two options : either the article in question refers to people who concentrate on certain activities and does not need to mention lawyers or any other professional category , or it refers to lawyers , creating a situation which in itself threatens professional confidentiality , however much the article specifies or defines the activities to which it refers .
as i understand it , ' immediately ' makes the requirement more pressing than setting a deadline of two months for a refusal to cooperate .
the committee responsible has gone along with me on this and i am pleased to say that the signals coming from the council are also positive .
this is the aim of our amendments .
we could not get any action from europol or from interpol operators in that country and there was a lack of understanding of the necessity for somebody to be brought to trial as quickly as possible .
systems of criminal law are , of course , among the clearest cultural expressions of a society .
what parliament has to adopt a position on today is vigorous judicial cooperation for the purpose of combating serious organised crime .
but as concerns eurojust , this is a network for coordinating the actions of national judges and public prosecutors with the objective of enhancing capabilities for combating types of serious crime at european level .
mr president , i welcome this report by mrs langenhagen , the contents of which i am very happy to endorse .
i would particularly like to thank mrs langenhagen for her very constructive report , along with the members of the committee on budgetary control , and of the committee on fisheries and notably the rapporteur , mr busk .
however , as soon as i took up office , i also took an initiative to set up an informal working party which looked into the issue of simplifying and improving procedures , and i have already had an opportunity to talk about this before the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy .
it is perfectly clear that these dialogues are necessary and there is clearly a joint responsibility here ; it is also up to the court to enter into these dialogues , but i can , in any case , assure you that both the court and the commission ' s services , along with parliament , share the same commitment to progress in terms of resolving these problems .
the commission shares this commitment , and i would like to hope that we can work in the best possible atmosphere to carry through this research programme , which is essential at european level , but which must be implemented in conformity with the most stringent of rules on efficiency and on financial control .
this charter is also the expression of a common set of basic values for all the candidate countries , for all the countries wishing to join the european union , and it is precisely in the area of social rights that it sends candidate countries a clear message that they must comply with these social standards .
members of the european parliament , particularly in our previous debate , have already expressed the wish to repeat the experiment .
i should , moreover , also like to point out some grounds for satisfaction for the presidency , and i believe for other institutions too , in the overall position adopted by the european trade union confederation , which stresses the connection between the charter and the social agenda and which concludes that the convention ' s proposed charter , adopted by the heads of state and government , " represents an important step towards the construction of a social and a citizens ' europe " .
that is why it was so important and why parliament was right not only to invest so much hope in a new charter of fundamental rights for the european union but also to help so intensively and constructively to bring it about .
it clearly sets out our citizens ' rights for them and clearly sets out the legal positions which the institutions , bodies and agencies of the european union must comply with and respect when acting on behalf of the people of europe .
our governments need to obtain tangible results in nice that they can offer to our citizens - institutional matters are important but , as the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner are well aware , they are difficult to sell to public opinion .
well then , let us endeavour to ensure that this situation is not repeated in the case of the charter of fundamental rights .
mrs president , the charter includes a number of welcome points .
we should not be drawing up lists of advantages and disadvantages , madam president .
the second fascinating aspect is that we are today discussing human rights and citizens ' rights , a subject over which the european union has no form of jurisdiction .
i could not agree with him more .
it is true , as one of the speakers said , that we have to make an effort to inform people about the charter , an effort that can begin in this parliament .
it is also , the commission points out , contemporary because it deals with issues such as bioethics , genetic engineering and data protection as well as access to information .
the charter constitutes a balanced and solid basis for enlargement .
we must take our rights seriously if we want governments to respect them and legal systems to guarantee them .
mr president , the charter that is now on the table for our approval is a project we can be proud of .
in the short term , it is far more important for the european union to give its commitment to the already existing european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of the council of europe .
we must move in this direction .
there are , however , other effects , particularly on our internal legal system .
in this respect i should like to point out that here , for the first time , a european union document is making it perfectly clear that the rights listed in the charter are , for the most part , applicable to all individuals regardless of nationality or even right of residence .
the commissioner has just mentioned the spirit in which the charter was drawn up , with a view to its being made , one day , a binding text .
here too , in specifying a right to good administration , the charter means to be ambitious .
mr president , minister , commissioner , of the two reports before us today , the one by mr morillon is more political in nature , whereas mine is more technical .
in this respect , i have no doubt but that the determination of each and every one of us to help turkey progress along the path of democratisation will in the end prevail .
for its part , the presidency would like to see this special action programme of eib loans adopted by the council very soon , probably as early as the forthcoming meeting of the council of ministers of economic and financial affairs on 27 november .
and finally , negotiations on cyprus have been resumed under the aegis of the united nations .
and i must say that i am convinced that the turkish government is firmly resolved to take a decisive approach to the reform projects needed .
i also welcome the proposals in this report on stepping up parliamentary cooperation and strengthening civil society .
nothing has been done about abolishing the death penalty , and very little has been done to set minority and human rights on a solid legal basis , even if a few un conventions have been signed .
nonetheless , what we are looking for here is not just compliance with the copenhagen criteria but compulsory democratic standards .
i fully agree with this statement , but i would say that the decision by the helsinki european council to grant turkey applicant country status was not preceded by the essential debate - both public and parliamentary - that general morillon ' s explanatory statement also calls for .
we cannot play about with the dignity of nations .
the council should consider whether granting turkey candidate status has done more harm than good here .
( parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
we therefore abstained .
in countries whose legislation is more favourable to workers , however , the charter may be cited to oppose the national legislation in courts of law .
if the charter is adopted at the forthcoming summit in nice , either by incorporating it into the treaties or simply by proclamation , it will be a step backwards .
even though the countries of europe currently find themselves in an alarming demographic position , the charter deals extremely lightly with the problems of the family .
the charter will involve the european court of justice in a number of political decisions , in fields as diverse as employment law , extradition policy , immigration and the family .
admittedly , i personally would have preferred a charter with a much more sizeable social component !
. ( fr ) i consider that the charter of fundamental rights represents a valuable step forward .
the consensus method adopted by the convention members has produced , as is generally the case when unanimity is enforced , a minimal charter characterised by significant omissions and ambiguities .
there is no right to work , just the " right to engage in work " ; there is no right to social protection or accommodation , just " the right to social assistance and housing assistance " ; there is no right to a retirement pension or a minimum income ; there is no ban on redundancies , just the " right to protection against unjustified dismissal " .
in the first place , there are discrepancies between the german and french versions which raise major questions about the references to " religious " or " spiritual " values .
it does not include the right to work or the right to housing .
we must , however , stand firmly against any campaign for a legally binding charter that would only create legal uncertainty .
recently our taoiseach , mr ahern , clearly stated that the european charter of fundamental human rights should remain a political , not a legal document .
next , these texts are all based on initiatives by member states , coming under either the third pillar of article 67 of the treaty establishing the european community , where the commission does not have the monopoly on the right of initiative .
we welcome the french presidency 's initiative aimed at improving cooperation between national authorities responsible for tackling money laundering and laying down uniform penalties .
. while welcoming closer cooperation between the member states ' police forces both amongst themselves and through europol , i share the rapporteur ' s concerns about the lack of democratic accountability of europol .
this is a consultation procedure , but it would be reasonable , of course , for it to be a codecision procedure because these decisions can in actual fact lead to the budget 's having to be adjusted .
almost 40 per cent of cyprus is occupied by foreign troops in the form of turkish soldiers .
and the answer is , as mr morillon 's report makes clear , not far enough .
we want to support it on this journey , not obstruct it and , above all , we want to keep our financial promises .
we can but share these concerns , which were duly expressed by the commission in its last annual report .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
great prospects are opening up , too , for cooperation in the areas of combating trafficking of all sorts , migration and enhancing the rule of law .
in other words , this is not just a chance for more trade and commerce , it is security policy par excellence and this is the message which we need to get across to our citizens if this process is to gain acceptance .
as far as human rights are concerned , we propose a structural approach looking at the performance of countries over time .
in fact , i will go further and say that , in the past , the peace process has served as an excuse for both europe and for the mediterranean partners not to be more courageous .
moreover , the dream of peace on both sides of the mediterranean should be listened to and the wish granted at the earliest possible opportunity .
moreover , by continuing it can make the best possible contribution , a secondary but significant contribution , to the resumption of dialogue in the middle east .
it is true that this conference is going to take place in a context of violence and of a peace crisis as a result of the conflict in the middle east , but it is also true that holding the conference will enable us to keep the flame of the euro-mediterranean process burning and that it should not be contaminated by the tragic conflict .
the commission and the council claim to want this .
secondly , i think that we are also forgetting another important subject , which is the environment .
hence my appeal for this regulation to strike a good balance between high profile activities , i.e. large projects , on the one hand , and continued attention to projects for democracy , on the other , i.e. projects to do with security , projects that are seldom as high profile , but which are all the more necessary to guarantee stability in the balkans .
mr president , commissioner , i am aware that the balkans are not the most promising area for optimism .
however , as far as i am concerned , this week ' s star price goes to the leader of the social democrats in bosnia , and , incidentally , to the people of slovakia , for not falling into the referendum trap that the opposition set for the government , but that is another story .
we indeed hope that the year will end with the consolidation of democracy on 23 december during the parliamentary elections in serbia .
any rapprochement with the european union is , in fact , closely linked , in the eyes of the council , to the development of regional cooperation .
the french presidency set itself ambitious targets as regards the western balkans which are close to being achieved : the development of the stabilisation and association process , the adoption of the cards programme , the adoption of asymmetric commercial preferences , to mention but the more noteworthy community measures .
mr president , mr president-in-office , i think the eu would have far more influence in the maghreb if there were stronger links with the reform process in morocco .
what diplomatic initiatives will the council take to further the rapprochement between armenia and azerbaijan , settle their bilateral differences , and promote cooperation between the two countries ?
mr president , i welcome the council 's response to the original question .
the new legislation being drafted in turkey , which prohibits reduced sentences , is necessary but it is even more important that muslim leaders officially condemn ' crimes of honour ' , which are a direct violation of islam .
as regards the issue in question , i simply wanted to say that there was no discrimination being made against any particular country .
when you say that extreme right-wing parties are banned in austria , that is all well and good , but one might also question what does or does not constitute the notion of the extreme right .
with regard to the political solution of the cyprus question to which you referred , mr alavanos , it will of course continue to be an issue of debate with turkey as we confirmed at helsinki .
as the author is not present , question no 11 lapses .
my reply was not really meant to be a show of optimism or hope , rather the expression of a desire , the desire of the french presidency of the european union , to reach an agreement , a sound agreement .
it also tried to set out a calendar for negotiations .
i have a letter from the sister of another constituent of mine who draws to my attention that he has been in prison since 28 march 2000 on similar suspicion .
given that developments in the oil markets make it necessary for the eu to adopt a more dynamic policy in the energy sector , how does the council think it might achieve a reduction in the european economy ' s dependence on oil ?
the measures to which the honourable member is referring appear in the draft budget signed by president clinton on 28 october 2000 .
i recognised that measures had been taken by the cuban government to better integrate their country economically into the region and reaffirmed europe ' s willingness to be cuba ' s partner in this process .
it is true that the european union is often accused of promising aid to countries struck by disaster or catastrophe and then taking so long to pay it , so long to keep its financial promises that either it creates the impression that it regrets having promised it in the first place or , when it finally does pay , it is already too late .
i want to focus on the regulations .
we think it makes more sense to do it there than to build it into the article on conditionality .
the language regime is a further sensitive issue .
that has been the background to these summits .
it is therefore a matter of priority that the european union should equip itself with the machinery needed to ensure the full participation it deserves .
mr president , the regional fisheries organisations are today without doubt the best , if not the only , guarantee for the management of world fish stocks , and they are likely be even more significant in the future .
could i first of all take the opportunity to welcome the report and say that the whole issue of the management , control and the conservation of fisheries stocks is a major problem no matter where you look .
i ask the commission to take that on board .
as far as the time taken to implement the decisions of the regional fisheries organisations is concerned , i agree that the commission 's record can and must be improved .
it does not solve the cyclical instability of the sector , it breaches the principle that the cap will provide financial support and it is clearly an example of renationalisation and distortion of competences .
the participation of all member states in this new system will be compulsory .
i am positive that this instrument will improve the stability of the market and allow farmers in europe to manage cyclical crises more efficiently .
other countries are determined to have a compensation fund and i will tell you quite frankly that , if we were to propose a mandatory compensation fund , we might as well forget the whole idea , because it would never obtain a majority in the council .
the different chapters of the annual report address four main concerns .
in areas where the community programmes are implemented directly by the commission , such as internal policy and external actions , implementation rates are somewhat lower .
in its 2001 programme , the court has therefore planned an overall audit covering all budgetary areas of the commission 's recovery procedures .
but i find it really amazing that some member states can refuse to accept financial responsibility , for example , in the area of customs duties , when their own authorities have made mistakes which mean that customs duties cannot be entered and they then refuse to make good this shortfall in revenue , so that instead all the member states have to accept joint responsibility for this revenue shortfall .
the commission has presented a paper on this to the committee on budgets .
when you assumed office , mrs schreyer , you assured us that you would strive to achieve this .
madam president , i should first of all like to thank the court of auditors for its annual report .
i could have done with seeing a much more practical annual report from the court of auditors .
reform of the commission is largely about making the individual directorates-general responsible , and i should like to ask the court whether it has plans in future to restructure the annual report so that chapters for the individual directorates-general are prepared .
i would therefore be grateful if you could respond to this question again .
i am pleased that the commission has taken steps to improve its management control over community finances , and systems are being put in place in the member states .
reforming the commission is no guarantee that previously recorded irregularities will not arise in the future .
madam president , i am grateful too that the council have come back because i have got something to say to them as well .
in order to achieve this , i also wish you , madam president , a great deal of staying power , and would like to thank you for the commitment you have already shown to date .
but you have not included that in your report , and i am sick and tired of hearing , year after year , that the member states are responsible for 80 % and the commission for only 20 % , while the report itself does not point the finger of blame !
we need to look at the way the court works and how its independence from the institutions and the programmes it is meant to audit can be strengthened .
but it has to be recognised that we are faced with a complex system .
in both cases , this involves a limited number of countries and a limited number of economic agents , who are the direct beneficiaries of these policies .
the court entirely agrees with parliament that it is not only a question of reform of the commission or of parliament reforming its way of working with financial control .
i shall give one example , one that i know the council has some difficulties with , but which for parliament is highly important and we wholly support it : the ban on exporting products deemed unsafe to third countries .
i am therefore deeply grateful to the ppe group for having adopted these amendments here today and tabling them for further debate here in this chamber .
in addition , there is the question of what the scope of current standards in europe is and what the scope of european standards would be .
we are at first reading .
we have to look now at the links between products and services .
in conclusion , i call upon the commission to set in motion a coordination project within the framework of existing community legislation and to make our legislation both more transparent and also genuinely beneficial owing to its certainty .
the scope of the directive in relation to the wide variety of national and community product legislation needs to be defined , as that legislation , too , covers the same safety ground .
a great deal of effort has been made to better define the interaction between vertical laws on certain categories of products and this new horizontal directive , so as to definitely achieve a satisfactory result .
however , it does not apply when specific sectoral legislation covering the same aspect applies .
i am very pleased that the report of mrs gonzález álvarez endorses the main principles of the commission proposal .
this motivation is needed in order to prevent excessive bureaucracy .
amendment no 19 proposes harmonisation of member states ' monitoring approaches on the basis of guidelines prepared by the commission and the consultative committee .
if the checks confirm that the product is safe , the ban will automatically be lifted .
( parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
( parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
unfortunately we are not in a position to welcome that yet .
the delays in implementing the agreements can only be partly justified .
- whilst i support this report on general product safety , it is important that we do not go too far .
we fully support this approach and the two proposals for council regulations which would implement it . but we cannot support the amendments tabled by the european parliament which aim to profoundly upset the balance of the system in favour of the commission .
mr president , i voted for the report although it does not distinguish clearly enough between kosovo , serbia and montenegro .
- ( sv ) we are not in favour of new subsidies for pig feed and are therefore voting against the report .
this house is always talking about rights - the charter was adopted yesterday - but when it comes to the application of these rights , not so much in practical terms but at least in terms of upholding them , parliament takes alarming steps backwards which are certainly no credit to it .
it is extraordinary that the european parliament should be expressing an opinion on turkey ' s progress on the road to accession , especially when it comes to respect for human rights .
this once again raises the question of whether turkey really wants to be a member of the european union , or whether it would prefer to organise an integrated ' whole ' with other middle east countries , which would have very close links with the european union at the commercial and economic level , at the security and stability level and also at the human rights and democratic rules level .
we opposed the amendments on the armenian massacre for exactly this reason .
on the whole , our interests are undermined , they are not defended with the necessary force , and the role of the commission is primarily that of a police officer vis-à-vis member states to get them to apply the binding decisions that have been adopted , sometimes in spite of themselves , in the regional organisation in question .
- ( fr ) without going back to the excellent argument put forward by mr gallagher regarding the text that has been submitted to the vote , i would like to extend the debate to cover all cases where our countries are represented by the executive commission in international negotiations .
fortunately , there is talk of progress on the technological front , where the emphasis must be on sustainability .
nonetheless , we are satisfied with this third reading , because it reinforces the operation authorisation conditions .
i believe this will prove to be a significant contribution to improving the environment .
it is essential that we do not replace one unhealthy and unsustainable form of waste disposal with another .
i am very happy about that , as the job i had as a new member having come directly to the second reading was not easy .
public access to information has improved .
the operation of social systems is directly affected by certain general trends including the unemployment and social exclusion generated by 25 years of low economic growth , which has restricted the overall potential tax yield , the ageing of the population , the consequence of the emergence of new diseases and , finally , increased health care costs due to advances in medical research and treatment .
one of the main objectives of the current modernisation of social protection is guaranteed access to affordable health protection .
this is important if we want a social europe that sets us apart from others .
however , the individual country must decide for itself what arrangements it prefers .
i turned to the health service and was told that i had to wait three weeks for an examination and then at least a further month for a crucial operation .
but above all he draws attention , for example in paragraph 3 , to the significant problems regarding the long-term sustainability of public health care systems throughout the eu because of the increasing cost of advances in treatment possibilities , as well as the growing demand from an increasingly elderly population .
in this sense , i think that , basically , we should await the commission study on current systems as well as a commission study on the american system and the schemes in operation in other countries because then we shall have a clearer picture of all this .
in order to avoid any misunderstandings , i would once again like to stress that the present report concerns supplementary health insurance and not health care as such , although obviously the two cannot be separated .
however , these figures are somewhat misleading since both the concept and the coverage of the system differ significantly from country to country .
whilst there are considerable differences between the various member states , the most serious situation is definitely that of portugal , with around 24 % of the population living below the poverty line due primarily to low salaries , insecure and badly paid jobs and pensions and benefits so low that they do not enable workers and their families or the elderly to live with a minimum of dignity .
any complaints about this from the commission are therefore unfounded as far as parliament is concerned , if this technical support is to be included in the programme itself .
updating the stability programmes in germany , finland and the netherlands
more and more member states are reaching balanced or even clearly positive budgetary positions .
i would like to know , commissioner , whether the commission can tell us anything about this .
the methods of control will be strengthened along the entire food chain .
the european food agency will also provide clear and accessible information on issues arising out of its mandate .
if these controls are respected and implemented , the risk to the public is reduced to a minimum .
specified risk materials must be removed and destroyed .
let me add a few comments on what i said earlier in this respect .
but implementation by the member states has still been too slow .
i will tell you exactly what we need , ladies and gentlemen - we need two things .
in a situation such as that which has now arisen in france , and also earlier on in many other countries , it is important to be able to tell consumers where the products they buy come from and how their origins can be traced .
today , mr böge , those who are claiming they have no incidence of mad cow disease on their territory are those who are not looking for it .
it is therefore urgent that measures are taken to reassure consumers and to restore their confidence in food safety .
i will not detail the horrors that have been committed on all sides .
the measures adopted by the french government in this regard are , as i said , inadequate .
well , the thing with poor agreements is that they should be challenged , especially when public health dictates this .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , this debate has one thing in its favour ; that at least it is highlighting the differences of opinion that exist among us , especially between the council and the commission .
we call for financial subsidies to assist breeders so that they do not have to bear all the costs of the crisis .
i would remind you though , that no human being can go without food , not for a single day .
firstly , to respond to the justified and very demanding need of european consumers for food safety , we are going to place the bar of controls and precautions at an extremely high level .
if you would only implement what we agreed , then you would not need to worry about all this any more .
let me assure you that , if we had had the political will then , we would not be facing this problem now , because we all know what has caused it .
the british system of removing infected animals from the herds and paying good compensation for those animals encourages farmers to declare their cases of bse .
to this end i listened most attentively to all your speeches , and it seems to me appropriate and crucial that the debate on the safety of our citizens is settled at the european level .
the tests that i am referring to now are somewhat different .
what measures does the commission intend to take to put a stop to this intolerable situation of shameful exploitation , abuse and the white slave trade , and to eliminate all discrimination against women ?
ladies and gentlemen , please begin with the question and not with the explanation .
the commission has therefore sent a recent opinion to the greek authorities .
if values are exceeded , the member state , in this case greece , will have to take action .
in its decision to approve the french scheme of supporting film production , the commission set four specific compatibility criteria .
but i do not think we should be satisfied just with what has been achieved .
firstly , by improving our understanding of exclusion by establishing an indicator and evaluation criteria directed at target groups in particular .
it may be true of older people whose knowledge is no longer needed .
furthermore , according to the eu 's statistical service , 18 % of european citizens live below the poverty line , while one-third of those living in poverty are working .
this is an ambitious programme of community action which , in line with the commission ' s proposal , will be given budgetary appropriations of eur 70 million and should remain in force for a period of five years .
mr president , i will end by stressing once again that mutual support between states must be the reference point upon which we base a fresh fight against poverty and social exclusion , but we must take into account the fact that the economic progress of the member states , and therefore an improvement in their welfare due to the implementation of a social economy of scale , will certainly facilitate the achievement of a greater , better system of social justice .
i also agree on the importance of improving understanding of social exclusion and poverty and of promoting comparable indicators and assessment criteria .
but i would like to make the following pragmatic suggestion in response to your concerns because i entirely agree that we must find a way to have close and continuous cooperation .
promotion of electricity from renewable energy sources
but we do not have that much time !
and one more thing i want to make crystal clear : waste incineration is not a renewable energy source and cannot therefore be counted towards meeting the targets .
we consider that , if these guidelines are not modified , the environmental impact they will cause will be highly negative .
colleagues , this directive makes sense .
we are not trying to deceive others into believing that carbon dioxide is reduced by burning peat , but it is our own fuel , while oil and gas are imported goods .
oil cannot be replaced by coal , natural gas or uranium .
this directive does , of course , take the desired line in that here , at last , is genuine exploitation of renewable energies .
mr president , i would like to thank mrs rothe for her valuable work in drafting this report .
our objectives in the field of sustainable energy are ambitious , yet still modest in the context of the climate problems we face .
mr president , let there be no doubt a combination of investments in renewables and energy efficiency is the only realistic way for the european union to meet the requirements of the kyoto protocol and reduce our heavy dependence on fossil fuels .
we must vote overwhelmingly in favour of the proposals from mrs rothe .
with regard to our targets in this field , we have to listen to the people and go beyond the commission ' s proposal of 21 % , which i think is very positive overall , and increase the renewable portion of the total electricity produced .
amendments nos 1 , 2 , 8 , 20 and 21 highlight the need for a policy favourable to green electricity and its many advantages and can be immediately accepted by the commission .
women must participate fully in all peace negotiations , in all reconstruction work and in peace-keeping operations .
the situation is also particularly difficult for women , however , if they still have to fight for recognition and for equal rights in practice .
there could also be training in involving ngos and in developing facilities for people affected by crises etc . we could subsequently hold hearings , seminars etc. on these subjects .
( the president cut the speaker off )
once again , my congratulations , and let us hope that something comes of it .
the report not only refers to the social exclusion of women as a problem in itself , it also rightly emphasises that protection against criminality and personal safety are no longer something that can be guaranteed solely within national borders .
the fourth example is the important role of women in the peace process which the european community is supporting in the balkans and in the mediterranean basin .
the workers , mostly women , should be provided with access to training .
mr president , commissioner , i want to begin by thanking the rapporteur .
mr president , commissioner , domestic helps , who were formerly almost exclusively employed by more wealthy households , nowadays provide much-needed and essential support for working men and women and , above all , for single mothers and the elderly .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
not only are we to carry out privatisation of our centralised economy , but also create a legal system that would guarantee the freedom of business operations and the entire economic process .
then your brave predecessors embarked on an uncertain project that bore historic fruit .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting
mr president , what i have to say concerns rather the future than the past , in other words , i would just like to make sure that we are to vote on the bse issue in today ' s vote .
at the beginning of this part-session i even submitted a complete proposed initiative to the committee on constitutional affairs .
obviously there have to be limits to such a right , and that is something we are also discussing today .
mr president , the right of members of parliament to confidential documents is a very important issue , but it cannot replace the direct right of access to information on the part of the public .
these are the considerations that led the committee on budgetary control to deliver an opinion under this procedure .
what they learn is at the media ' s discretion or depends upon special interest groups , and they often feel powerless over and against the institutions .
however , the issue here is the public 's , not parliament 's , access to documents .
we have therefore reduced them to six .
furthermore , a report must be sent to parliament every year so that we might continually follow up this action .
in principle this regulation is positive , especially the clarification that it covers all areas of activity and all the institutions of the union .
i call on you to pressure the council into changing its mind and , at the same time , i call on you to vote in favour of the cashman report .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur and everyone else involved in this work .
finally , so many documents are kept secret even from the members of parliament that many of the facts we would need in order to reach a decision remain so hidden that ...
we members should be more courageous .
it would be better to create provisions in the paragraphs themselves , which would oblige all bodies to publish their documents and create registers on them .
this gap is symbolic of the distance between the european union and its citizens .
i believe that this demonstrates that there are no perfect situations and that we all have to make progress in order to prevent situations of this type .
i include here amendments such as those tabled on measures which must be agreed by means of an interinstitutional agreement : amendments nos 34 , 45 , and 48 .
i am making this comment because as a rule the commissioner present gives the commission ' s voting recommendations orally .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
the majority of the women will be travelling to a conference of members of parliament in berlin .
mrs villiers ' report deserves better than to be voted on tomorrow morning .
i will go along with this , but had you gone down the list in the right order and not had the vote on the cashman report first , because a number of people are absent this evening - for that is the reason - then there would still have been time to vote on the smet report .
mr mann , your first comment will naturally be brought to the attention of the parliamentary bureau and the conference of presidents .
. ( el ) the commission and the council of the european union have a great deal to answer for as regards the proportions which the issue of bse has assumed .
turning to the substance of the matter , my group recommended extremely stringent measures to fight this epidemic .
the cap must make public health its top priority .
the cases of bse which have arisen in france , in the same way as the dioxins in chickens issue in belgium , are the latest in a long series of irresponsible incidents .
all these measures reflect changing public opinions on the issue of waste management .
new forms of exclusion are included , such as exclusion from the information society ,
i welcome this initiative , which responds to the expectations of our fellow citizens , the citizens of europe .
this will be achieved by setting specific objectives to be integrated into national action plans and implementing policies to promote equal opportunities .
although we are seeing strong economic growth and a fall in unemployment , in the modern world work offers no protection against exclusion .
the british labour government has been leading the fight against poverty and social exclusion .
the member states must now pursue the same line and respect the environmental objectives they endorsed both at european level and at international level , but they must also ensure their independence as regards energy and security of supplies .
the importance of nuclear energy is increasing constantly , for this very reason .
we feel that regional integration is a crucial instrument for promoting the three fundamental objectives that i have just mentioned .
in this context , the commission is taking action and we have specific projects for each of those three areas .
that is precisely the point of our resolution .
it is also impossible to envisage lasting peace in the country without religious and ethnic tolerance .
after all , he drew the nationalist card too .
after all , the west has had a certain level of involvement in the country .
so the european union must begin to take a firm stance towards vietnam and raise the issue of the rule of law and not just - i repeat - the issue of human rights , where there have been some signs of improvement .
this is undoubtedly true .
it is therefore these industries which ought to be making a major effort to reduce emissions .
i respect the remarks you made and can assure you that they will be recorded in the minutes .
in fact , despite the very legitimate recitals on the rights acquired within the existing systems , seeking to give all citizens a high level of protection , regardless of their personal resources and the individual risks incurred , which also highlight the risks of transfer from public to private schemes , and outline the growing involvement of the latter in overall expenditure and the resulting inequalities , all the practical proposals set out in the resolution do nothing but promote the faster growth of private insurance schemes throughout the community .
everyone is being compelled just to think of their own interests , and to start attending to all kinds of unnecessary financial matters .
own funds of banks ( continuation )
that is the only way to create equal conditions of competition .
but what we could find surprising is its very existence , and the existence of the commission ' s new initiative here .
mr president , in the first place , i would point out that the commission is pleased to see that mrs villiers ' report relates not only to the evaluation of the own resources directive but also to the current revision of the changes to the regulations concerning capital adequacy .
we ought to support these objectives by means of sound and prudent standards which guarantee the security of our markets and institutions .
the debate is closed .
given that we will soon have to apply ourselves in this parliament to fundamental changes to the statute of the european ombudsman , which are still being discussed in the committee on constitutional affairs , to whose report i have been given access and which addresses the issue of extending the ombudsman ' s powers of investigation , we will wait until then for a complete , qualitative revision of the text of that statute .
the ombudsman 's office certainly helps to redress that democratic deficit .
the debate is closed .
it is her opinion in particular that i want to draw attention to as i speak tonight .
mr president , mr bösch has drawn up an excellent report and we thank him for it , as we do mrs hautala , representing the committee on legal affairs and the internal market .
the ombudsman 's initiative and recommendations can therefore be warmly welcomed , as can the decision by the commission to follow them .
unlike the member states , with their long history , the european union has only a short past , which is why it must create the expectation of something new .
finally , the commission can obviously make a commitment on its own behalf .
approval of the minutes of the previous sitting
one way to win a vote is to turn up when your opponents do not .
. ( it ) i voted for the villiers report on the own funds of banks , for it is imperative for directive 89 / 299 / eec , which regulated the matter a good 11 years ago , to be updated and supplemented .
naturally priority should be given to the countries with which the european union is conducting accession negotiations .
after 110 days of detention a person , if not tried , must be released and never tried for that offence again .
to take just one point , mr posselt writes of ' providing training sessions for senior national police officers on the basis of common standards ' .
mrs karamanou has just stated that she welcomes the fact that parliament will have an advisory role , and yet , only the other day , the group of the party of european socialists voted against a motion on the grounds that the europol management board was to include members of parliament with the right to vote .
we see that the police in one country react totally differently to the same situation than the police in another country .
above all , i wish to emphasise that , as someone who has always advocated the idea of community policing , which is the method employed in the united kingdom , i would welcome the fact that this british idea is finding ever more support in a range of countries in so-called " continental europe " .
as meps , we ourselves are very often concerned by crime .
moreover , it would be flexible in its organisation , offering great potential for development , with the possibility of training programmes being held at the best qualified national institute for each aspect .
i have worked on these issues for over six years and , very much thanks to the help and resources of the european parliament , have had several significant successes in recovering children who have been abducted .
that is a task for the future .
mr president , i do not doubt for one minute commissioner vitorino 's commitment to this issue .
the commission feels that the treaty establishing the european community that is currently in force enables account to be taken of the specific nature of sport in general and of its social function in particular .
i recognise their commitment and determination to do that and , of course , that sport and especially football are big business and cannot expect to be exempt from the normal rules of business .
the european parliament has often expressed its concern with regard to drugs and called for more effective action to counter their use .
that concludes this item .
what we need to get clear today is that the uk is proposing what it is doing in full recognition that it must consult the european union and in full recognition that there is eu legislation in place that it must abide by .
i listened to mr mccartin earlier and it is evident he has got the wrong end of the stick .
you are aware that we have a very full agenda and i have therefore taken this decision by virtue of the powers accorded me under the rules of procedure in order to ensure the smooth running of parliamentary business .
co2 emissions are on the increase here too ; we know that , and we have discussed it often enough .
madam president , the conference on the world climate may have broken down but substantial progress was made nonetheless .
fortunately , 14 of the 15 ministers for the environment were of the same mind on this issue .
the european union made an error of judgement where the second view is concerned , because the green environment ministers of france and germany were not prepared to forget kyoto .
this kyoto protocol must not be watered down under any circumstances .
if we could reach an agreement with the united states which allows them to work towards a lower realisation percentage in their own country , this would always be preferable to having no agreement at all .
let us conclude , however , on a hopeful note .
we have repeatedly said ourselves that no agreement is better than a bad agreement , but that does not mean that we should make our own political wish list the yardstick of a sound agreement .
now is the time to decide that we cannot fail once more .
we opened up discussions on what we had earlier said were big loopholes , or potentially of big loopholes .
good progress has been made on qualified majority voting , which could be extended to another thirty areas , if some member states make the effort to confirm this .
they have even arranged for the council to continue through sunday if that is absolutely essential .
at the nice meeting there will be an exchange of views with all the candidate countries on the reform of the european union ' s institutions , and more generally on the outlook for the future of europe .
in this sphere , following on from lisbon , the french presidency made the adoption of the social agenda one of its priorities .
finally , we have prepared a statement for the european council on the specific economic , social and cultural characteristics of sport and its social functions in europe .
( applause ) member states naturally find it politically difficult to give up the right of veto in sensitive areas such as social policy , asylum and immigration , common trade policy , cohesion and taxation , even when this relates only to the technical changes necessary to make the single market work .
we also believe that , with regard to issues on which we fail to agree to majority decision-making at this stage , you could lay down in the treaty that the switch to majority voting may be made by a unanimous decision of the council , for if it is enshrined in the treaties in that way , there will be no need to revise the treaties and engage in a lengthy ratification process for each and every extension of majority voting .
secondly , we believe that there should not only be progress with regard to qualified majority voting , but that there should always be codecision in relation to legislative issues .
my appeal to you , mr president-in-office , is to present us in this parliament a document worthy of this parliament 's assent and a document worthy of the scale of the historic challenge we face in europe .
i say this today , if the bar is compromised and is too low , we will refuse to consider it and we will do so for europe and we will do it in good conscience .
this would be a very important position for parliament to adopt , and we will be able to vote on it tomorrow .
it is highly like that , on the last night of the council , measures will be adopted which our national parliaments will not have discussed properly and which they will then be required to ratify for the sake of a forced compromise .
there are still 65 categories of legislation requiring unanimity according to the treaty of amsterdam .
in democracies , it is the other way around .
its voice would be stronger yet and that of the ministers defending an agriculture that promotes sustainable development would also be stronger within the council if it were to be based on decisions taken in this place under the codecision procedure .
mr president , i was involved in securing denmark ' s positive vote against the treaty of maastricht in 1992 .
i should like to emphasise that the population of europe consider themselves to be represented in the european parliament , and parliament must reflect this .
mr president , even paris is divided over nice .
the charter does not deserve to be left in a vacuum , with no clear status .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , as soon as nice has finished , it will the european parliament 's turn to reply to two historic questions , questions which affect both the future of the european union and its own political credibility .
that is , of course , important and i am surprised that others have not mentioned it as it has occupied much of our time in the committee .
we are aware , from the speeches made by president chirac in this place in july , that at least three major topics stand out , namely the simplification of the treaties , the sharing of jurisdiction between european , national and regional levels , what i might term the rights of states in the american expression ( section 10 of the american constitution ) , and , thirdly , the balance between the institutions - though here we should especially , perhaps , consider the role of the national parliaments - i.e. how is our institution to be managed in future .
it is nothing to be afraid of .
as far as extending qualified majority voting is concerned , we are agreed that , unless we make some sort of move in this direction , we shall encounter a great many problems .
as mrs berès said , it is of course untenable to draw a distinction and give us codecision rights in consumer affairs on the one hand , but at the same time , only give us consultation rights in agricultural matters .
to hear mr bonde talk , the balkans is his ultimate ideal .
once we had reached agreement on a text - and this is a good text , very well drafted by the convention , it reads well , it has style - some countries then said we must incorporate it into article 6 .
in developing the idea that it would be advantageous in the future to have a commission that was not too large to be effective and retained its full capabilities , especially its power of initiative , we demonstrated that we too were ready to make that sacrifice .
the debate is closed .
mr president , i would be grateful if you would report back to the house on the points that i have raised .
mr president , i was not aware of this incident .
i can inform you that mrs fontaine - this has just been communicated to me and i should like to echo the sentiment on behalf of the bureau - deeply deplores this grave incident .
mr president , there was an extremely serious occurrence in italy yesterday .
this excellent initiative was repeated this year and the second forum will be held on 12 and 13 december in paris , which is to say at the same time as the european parliament ' s part-session in strasbourg .
at the same time , we also agree that the sequence of responses is correct .
things do not often turn out that way , minister , and we are delighted .
the institutional aspects are also extremely important , because they will allow the union to make plans , to take decisions and to act ; in other words , to take political control and maintain strategic leadership of a crisis management operation .
a new dynamic has therefore been launched on the basis of an action demonstrating political will on the part of our member states .
perhaps i can begin by commenting on what my honourable friend mr hume has just said .
as the ministers have pointed out in their excellent speeches , recent weeks have seen important developments in strengthening europe ' s contribution to its own security .
the challenge for us now is sticking to that strategy , ensuring we can make that strategy work , ensuring that , in holding out the prospect of a closer relationship with the european family , we can help those countries make the economic and political changes and reforms required in order to secure their stability and long-term prosperity .
now it is matter of forging an effective and efficient european unit from this , under a clear and unambiguous command .
this means that , as meps , we need structures to enable us to obtain information about the decisions made and to enable us to engage in debate , to participate and to hold people to account .
the first point concerns the role of the european parliament , which is something several other speakers have already touched on .
i can tell you that the palestinians have great expectations of europe .
as an association of soldiers ' mothers stated , we did not take our children out of lebanon just so that they could die for the settlements .
the middle east conflict could therefore become the acid test of the efficiency of european middle east policy .
minister , i should like to say a special word of thanks to you for having been with us in committee and for being here today .
in this way other eu member states could keep to their traditional peacekeeping activities .
it can only recover credibility if the civilian approach is its supreme guiding principle , if the instruments at its disposal are used in pursuit of effective prevention and if those instruments receive a level of funding that maintains their credibility .
this is the enemy which your cfsp has in its sights .
i cannot tell you how delighted i am to discover that mr brok all along was a dangerous revolutionary !
the priority now is to do all we can to strengthen the conditions for freedom and peace in europe .
we must ensure that this whole process is democratically monitored .
all the political and diplomatic efforts , all the economic pressure , could not prevent the outbreak of violence in the heart of europe and the unacceptable challenge that posed to all our european values .
i would also note , by the way , that the positions adopted by the council do not , and will not , include any eu budgetary commitment to finance military action of whatever kind .
that is why we want to ensure that this process is not imposed from above ; we consider it crucial that all the staff are effectively associated in this whole process of modernisation .
an annual evaluation of the changes in the functioning of the commission and of the additional cost of this reform requires consultation at the beginning of each financial year .
moreover , it is totally illogical for the council alone to be able to amend the financial regulation and we repeat our call for conciliation on this issue .
we have also been unanimous in stating that many of the shortcomings and irregularities that were condemned during the discharge for 1996 were due to the fact that previous commissions had not managed to modernise their management and control systems and had not applied all of the legislation in force .
what was very interesting from those discussions was to see how employment and organisation practices in private and public sector are actually moving closer together .
leadership from the top will be crucial .
lastly , it is also time to look at the union 's external representation .
we therefore ask the commissioner : can the commission guarantee a truly limited transitional period ?
i am happy to see that the commission ' s proposal appears to be consistent with the position we are due to adopt tomorrow .
the managers of units and institutions must be given a certain amount of leeway in administration .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , with the plan to reform the commission , we are progressing towards the new european institutions : new in that changes were made to the old institutions following the problems which arose during past management and on the basis of the lengthy , exhaustive and in many places complex report of the independent experts .
as you would expect we are supporting amendments nos 1 to 6 , submitted by the pse .
mr lamassoure says on enlargement that the commission , as regards the accession process , is expected to propose a comprehensive strategy reflecting the union 's interest in its political timetable - not just an assessment regarding the suitability of each applicant country .
with this consideration , we urge the commission and mr kinnock to move ahead with their efforts at reform .
for the european parliament , foreign affairs is a vital and interesting matter , and i completely agree that , having had a lifetime 's interest myself in these issues , that is a proper explanation .
i am sure that parliament will give you the opportunity to go into greater depth on another occasion , since this reform is not going to end with the first vote tomorrow .
so once again transparency is the aim , and i believe we shall achieve that aim .
in those situations it is sometimes forgotten that we also operate within a democratic system and that codecision rules have to be respected - and rightly so .
( the president urged the speaker to bring her speech to a close ) mr president , i will conclude by saying that we are going to approve two amendments and another three will not be approved , as has been discussed in committee .
our committee shared the view of the rapporteur that the commissioner for development should both formulate and implement policy in this area , although these should be coordinated with the other policies dealing with external activities .
here again the understanding of the budget authority has played a crucial role for funding this major reorganisation of the european external service .
( the sitting was closed at 12.30 a.m. )
madam president , i believe it is beyond doubt that the commission , like the french presidency considers the question of maritime safety and environmental protection to be of extreme importance .
we all agree on that , but we have to find the methodology by which that particular priority can be implemented , and we have yet to secure an agreement between the three institutions on that .
there are numerous points , as mr watts has already explained , where the european parliament takes a firmer stand than the council appears to be taking .
there have also been talks with the sectors concerned and a great deal of contact with the french presidency with the aim of being able to arrive at a text agreed by consensus that can be adopted quickly by the two legislative bodies : the council and the european parliament .
although industrial and radioactive discharges continue from a range of sources , the practice of direct dumping with little thought for the future is now widely regarded as unacceptable .
furthermore , the public have a right to know what preparations have been made , what types of material are threatening and what impacts are to be expected .
i am convinced that this will mean , in the longer term , the establishment of a european coastguard .
i will support this report and the commission ' s amendments , but i call on the members of parliament to also support the amendments of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy on social standards .
please help to ensure that the commission sends a clear signal here .
everyone who works in the sector bears a heavy responsibility .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , the disasters of the past few months have brought to light the inadequacies of legislation , weaknesses in the systems of control and deficiencies in terms of human and financial resources .
as the rapporteur very rightly points out , the condition of a tanker is more indicative than its age .
we do not want them in our ports or in our waters .
we all know each other 's positions by now , which is another reason why we need to vote today .
there is , however , still much to be done to improve safety at sea .
i therefore consider that there is an incredible amount still to do in this area .
so it is important to state the political and cultural bottom line : it is time to get rid of the emergency culture , and it is time to affirm the prevention culture .
the problem of safety for this form of transport requires offenders to be penalised rigorously ; imposing such penalties entails costs that must be shared by the whole sector worldwide , so that we do not penalise the european sector even more .
i want to say to mr jarzembowski that the council is not seeking a compromise .
madam president , i first would like to thank you all for this interesting and valuable debate .
amendments nos 1 , 6 , 7 and 8 also relate to the refusal of access .
member states must satisfy themselves that the classification society they have chosen to work on their behalf , fulfils the tasks to their full satisfaction .
that leaves amendment no 10 dealing with the important issue of liability limits .
relating to amendment no 2 :
employment creation must remain one of our top priorities .
to do so , we must be sure that the measures we are proposing today are implemented by all the member states of the european union .
the commission is right to want to stop europe lagging behind america .
this decision is important but it does not go far enough .
in addition , i have voted for all the amendments that improve and tighten up the commission ' s proposals .
the revision of directive 94 / 57 / ec is becoming a matter of some urgency , especially since malta and cyprus , the fourth and sixth largest fleets worldwide respectively , are candidates for accession to the european union .
i believe that is a crucial criterion by which to judge the treaty of nice .
in order for treaty reform , and indeed enlargement , to be a success it must have the full support of the people .
the voters i represent have no sympathy with any of its policy directions .
so if you succeed in avoiding wars , as you have done so far , you will be doing the most important thing that has ever been done in the world . '
. ( fr ) the ' other europe ' delegation of the union for a europe of nations group resolutely voted against the own-initiative report which was drawn up by the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy and presented by mr brok .
it is up to each individual member state to decide to what extent it wants to participate in a common european security and defence policy .
we are convinced that a europe of peace will not be created through military alliances .
. ( sv ) i value the attempt to develop a common european security policy , but i am against the development of a common military defence force .
but the language of the document goes even further .
problems taken up in the report can be solved with a humane asylum and refugee policy , by organising work to take into consideration a balance between work and personal life as well as by taking responsibility for people with special needs in a way which shows solidarity and social responsibility .
the rapporteur feels that a legal framework is required at european level that makes it possible for persons providing domestic services to be covered by employment protection legislation .
she wants this type of work to be recognised as an occupation in its own right and is calling for european rules to be established on the rights of these workers - at present the situation varies from country to country .
it is therefore necessary to ensure that these commitments are respected much more closely than they have been in the past .
i have voted in favour of the lamassoure report , which concerns itself most of all with the institutional aspects of commission reform .
i regret this and that is why we abstained from the vote as a group , because we feel that the ngos have done badly out of it .
secondly , madam president , i would like to ask you to explain to the house as clearly as possible , given the amount of contradictory information which has accumulated throughout the day , what the structure of the debate with the french presidency will be in relation to the nice european council , and what approach will be taken to the participation of the president-in-office of the council .
madam president , there has been mention of what the task of the committee on constitutional affairs may be .
thank you , mr hänsch , for that constructive contribution .
madam president , we are now discussing this directive for the second time this year , and once again , a large number of amendments have been tabled .
despite this clear course of action , we must also be conscious of the fact that we are the parliament of a union that sets great store by the principles of the constitutional state , which means that we must recognise the limitations of our authority , i.e. we must know what the limits are to the authority we derive from article 95 , the legal basis we are invoking for the new tobacco directive .
to uphold this basic principle , we have , to begin with , proposed extending the legal basis to include article 133 of the treaty , but above all , we have postponed the date by which member states will be obliged to implement it to 1 january 2007 .
let us be absolutely sure that they are informed when they make the decision one way or the other .
we are of the opinion , however , that there are very significant differences between the issue of tobacco advertising and this directive .
therefore , their correct legal basis is the former article 100a or the current article 95 .
what is more , i feel this will set a poor example if we want to put warnings on other products at a later stage .
mr president , it is fair to say that we have a moral obligation to fully inform the 30 million consumers of the european union about the public health dangers of cigarettes .
so , instead of exporting cigarettes we will be exporting jobs - 4 000 of them in my region alone .
mr president , to begin with i would like to congratulate mr maaten on a splendid report .
i am hoping the commissioner might reassure us that an increase in the level of staff support within the commission is on the cards .
mr bowis asked whether the exemption would apply .
the commission would prefer to examine the available data and report back in due course .
the commission reports on the application of the excise directives address this problem in the proper way .
as the rapporteur , i would recommend that these amendments be supported as they make a lot of sense .
i have said this because i and my group are convinced that europe has more serious problems and tasks to deal with .
for example , the transport sector in particular , but also other sectors of industry , requires stable , long-term planning on account of technical requirements connected with the preparation of transport timetables .
that is why medical science should be given every possible means of properly protecting individual and public health .
the debate is closed .
we must not forget that the essence of the acquis communautaire from these programmes needs to be passed on to the new health programmes currently being drawn up and it is therefore only right that we extend them .
i agree with mr trakatellis : you cannot play games with patients ' health when they expect our help , or with non-governmental organisations which need these community budgets to deliver the health policies on the ground .
the prevention of drug dependence programmes must also be focused not only on black spots , but across many other areas within the european union .
standing of victims in criminal procedure
i would like to highlight that , despite its importance and the fact that it is a mandatory point of reference in europe , the convention has still not been ratified , as of 18 september 2000 , by the following member states of the european union : austria , belgium , greece , ireland , italy , portugal and spain .
the second aspect which played a certain part was the issue of evidence recorded on video .
it may be that we have devoted too little time to the victims , who are often the weakest members of society .
it can be difficult for a foreign victim to follow the criminal procedures from a distance , and in this case it is clear that special measures are required .
it was the subject of difficult discussions in the council .
the commission wishes to continue the feasibility study for such a project .
mr posselt , we will pass on your arguments to the college of quaestors so that they can adopt the resolution that they think best and so that it will be known to all members .
the commission therefore supports the council 's request for urgent procedure and calls on the members of the european parliament to support this urgent procedure .
the chairman of the committee on budgets tells me that this is the very first time that agreement has been reached between the council and parliament at conciliation .
we can finance cooperation with the baltic region and our crisis reaction forces and we have given meda eur 40 million more than the council provided .
indeed , the representatives of the three institutions spared no effort to conclude an overall agreement on the 2001 budget and i wish to take this opportunity to thank , on behalf of the council , both the members of the parliamentary delegation and mrs schreyer .
i am delighted that our institutions have been able to reach agreement on adopting , at only one reading , all aspects of this letter of amendment no 2 , which concerns not only agricultural expenditure but also the fisheries agreements and the inclusion of an estimated balance for the 2000 financial year in the preliminary draft budget for 2001 .
personally , i consider this to be extremely important .
to conclude this overview , i wish to join those who have highlighted the excellent climate in which this budgetary procedure has taken place .
in providing the eur 200 million emergency package , the union has also proven that it is perfectly able to act quickly and take full account of its foreign policy responsibilities .
mr president , i should like to answer mr colom i naval on the issue of the use of the flexibility instrument in revising the financial perspective .
we praised commissioner busquin , who has exceeded our expectations in that area .
you keep saying that the financial perspective is sacrosanct as far as you are concerned .
our group will also vote in favour of this budget because it shows that , once again , we have reached an exemplary compromise , despite being under increasing pressure .
ladies and gentlemen , i wish to welcome mr jacques chirac , president of france and president-in-office of the council ,
we must also pay tribute to the european spirit , which finally enabled us to leave nice having resolved those issues left over from amsterdam and having paved the way for the future .
i now come to one of the most positive outcomes of the igc .
after all , enlargement is clearly the major issue facing europe today .
its significance will be assessed in the future and i wish to pay tribute to your parliament which contributed so greatly to its drafting .
first of all , at nice we concluded the round of negotiations begun at the cologne and helsinki european councils .
the commission 's proposals on maritime safety and the creation of a european food safety authority met with strong support , as did the decisions on our seven outermost regions .
lastly , it was the weighting of votes in the council that gave rise to the most difficult debate and the most difficult decision .
i can say that there are parts we like and much about which we are concerned .
( applause )
on the contrary , their restraint was driven by serious problems and concerns and the result of informed national opinion , which cannot be swept to one side and must be taken seriously .
the presidency regrets these shortcomings and itself had reservations and made a considerable effort to ensure that france made progress in areas about which it is particularly sensitive .
hence these proposed amendments , these so-called compromise amendments from three groups .
it was really necessary to simplify the plethora of legal and administrative arrangements applying to clinical trials in the member states .
in fact , i feel that it is right for all the states of the european union to be on the same summer time " .
appropriate measures should be taken to provide crime victims with the following rights : to provide and receive information ; communications facilities ; participation in the procedure and access to free legal aid ; a suitable level of protection and privacy ; the possibility to seek compensation under criminal procedure and to dispute settlement through mediation .
european council / french presidency ( continuation )
the heads of state and government have just recognised at nice what we were saying after amsterdam : the intergovernmental conference method is no longer successful for europe .
as representative of the parties united in the european free alliance , i would like to alert the commission , but particularly the council , to the dangers , should the eu wish to be no more than an intergovernmental association .
in other words , the democratic deficit is now even greater .
we must reflect seriously on what has happened .
in reality , it is the president who is being unrealistic if he thinks that it will be possible to enlarge the union with such a treaty .
enlargement has given you , has given us all the same task as monnet and schuman had fifty years ago : the task of developing a method , structure and vision for the future of europe .
there is just one small satisfaction : enlargement .
this clause adopts the european parliament 's opinion that further development of the european union will be impossible using the intergovernmental method applied in the past .
like the president of the republic this morning , i too try to imagine what would happen if we had arrived here without a treaty of nice .
later we will see , together , all together , how to proceed .
we must lift the consensus rule , including in a future convention .
in all those cases we reached the conclusion that those treaties were not entirely satisfactory , did not respond to all of our aspirations , but nonetheless represented a step forward and were at least better than the status quo .
many people looking at the treaty of nice will wonder why it was done in that way .
we would have been able to convey a better , stronger european result to the people with a better and clearer conscience .
we have been quite frank with each other in today 's debate about those parts of the treaty of nice which give us cause for satisfaction and even more open about those with which we are not content . our reasons are different in some cases but we share the same feelings and concerns .
a fine signal to send our close partners in the south .
it is true that the chamber is pretty thin , but unfortunately the debate on the budget lasted longer than planned and we - i and the speakers who follow me - will not have the opportunity to raise the matter with the presidency .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , commissioner , representative of the council , rapporteurs , each budgetary year the european parliament gains budgetary importance .
and i am going a little further , because it is not enough to have strict and transparent rules for implementing the budget , such as the cancellation of commitments if they have not been implemented after two years .
we are being up front with our praise and you may be sure that we shall seek to exercise strict control in the future .
here are your measures which quite explicitly promote environmental protection .
however , i am of the opinion that the importance of russia is not really reflected in the budget , but we disagree with the social democrats on that score .
that means that we have a joint responsibility for peace in the caucasus , for environmental protection in the russian federation and for the rights of its indigenous people .
i think that the solution cannot be military , as the situation clearly demonstrates , and that it can only be political .
negotiations to find creative solutions as regards the future freedom of transit for the people of kaliningrad through lithuania and poland should also be completed before poland and lithuania accede to the eu .
it is not just because each of the major european powers is primarily concerned with safeguarding the interests of its own capitalist groups , but in the final analysis , what does capitalist europe have to offer russia ?
i am anxious to work closely with the incoming swedish presidency to make concrete progress on the northern dimension .
it is because we take our relationship with russia so seriously that these issues matter .
subject : genetically modified organisms and crops since the spring of this year there have been many cases of the release into the environment in various eu countries of genetically modified organisms and crops , namely cotton , oil seed rape and maize .
this common position sets much more stringent requirements for the member states .
it would be both unwise and foolish for the council to attempt to do so .
secondly : has the council obtained information from the council of europe 's commissioner for human rights , who is well represented locally ?
this report shows , as you quite rightly state , that tax fraud within the community has reached worrying levels .
i should just like to make you see , on this , my last visit here , what the point of this exercise actually is .
as you yourself stated , these are bold decisions of recent date , the latest of these being from 4 december , that is a week ago .
subject : un special session on children the un general assembly 's special session on children , in september 2001 , will discuss the situation of children world-wide , and consider adopting a new plan of action to make children 's rights a reality across the world .
in accordance with article 23 of the treaty on european union , the council shall adopt this decision unanimously , as is the case , moreover , for any other decision with implications in the area of defence .
as you know , it was not possible , unfortunately , to make any progress in this area at nice .
with the changes and democratic developments in yugoslavia , the stabilisation and association agreement between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the european union and the present motion for a resolution on the stabilisation and association agreement with croatia , there are good prospects for democratisation and stabilisation in the western balkans and croatia can play a specific and decisive role here .
another point in croatia 's favour is the changed attitude of the newly elected croatian authorities to the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia .
let me also stress that croatia is endeavouring to put its relations with neighbouring states in good order .
unlike its neighbour slovenia , immediately after independence in 1991 croatia was not able to develop in a way as to allow it to become a candidate for accession at this point .
we welcome parliament 's support so far , not least on the important question of the legal base for the stabilisation and association agreements .
mr president , the positive developments that have been seen in indonesia are unquestionable , to the extent that they suggest that a new relationship and effective cooperation with that country are in order .
in many places , violence prevails over dialogue .
a special case is the still unresolved question of west timor .
the enlargement of the community and the introduction of the euro could bring further risks with them .
i thank the commission for its efforts and its work ...
i am sure , commissioner , that once this first step is taken , the discussion about the european public prosecutor 's office will no longer seem like a religious war between those for and those against , which has blocked all progress so far .
i would like to congratulate mrs theato on her report and in particular for making the effort to come here as i know she is not feeling very well tonight .
the strategy is built around four main lines of action : an anti-fraud legislative policy , operational cooperation between the relevant authorities , an interinstitutional approach to combat fraud in office and enhancement of the penal judicial dimension .
the next target date is 2004 , the next intergovernmental conference .
this has happened on several occasions in relation to the structural funds , for example .
it is imperative also that we stick to the remit required of us and that we concentrate exclusively during the discharge process on the year in question .
one day we will have to change this sort of absence of the ' innocent hand ' of the council , which is never guilty of anything .
the court of auditors supplies reports and one of the most important recipients of these reports is parliament .
i heard - and it is not an isolated incident - the united kingdom minister for social welfare say on television that if he could stop fraud he could save gbp 6 billion .
after the events of the past year , your aim is to create a budgetary control and discharge procedure which is more transparent and above all more efficient and effective .
in my view , the common position before us , which we have to decide on today , has a number of crucial weaknesses , which for the rest nobody has disputed so far during the debate in terms of principle .
if it takes three pages to do so , then clearly there will be enough points of reference and opportunities for dispute and we will create no legal certainty .
in the second block are a series of amendments that aim to improve the participation of workers when there is a takeover bid .
the proposals introduce three key elements at a time when there is a change in control of a company : protection of minority shareholders , transparency in relation to bid information and regulatory supervision of the process .
this is a matter on which clarity is of the utmost importance .
greater understanding must be shown for national characteristics . otherwise , there may be devastating consequences for an individual member state ' s company structure .
mr bolkestein himself has said that it is crucial that the management of target companies consult shareholders in this case .
mr president , it is interesting to follow mr martin as an english speaker and i can assure him that things are certainly not falling apart in the british economy even though my party would like a change of government .
the situation in the united states can teach us a thing or two on that score , and should be a warning to us to proceed more cautiously .
the reservations voiced in several quarters can be summarised in two major groups .
i will have a hard job persuading the people in my country , but i am firmly convinced that the harmonisation of the right of resale , on the basis of the ep 's proposals , will bring benefits to all concerned .
that has nothing to do with special national interests but contributes to an open and transparent political debate .
the second important issue is that of the total amount , which is removed in amendment no 7 .
i have duly noted the fact .
i think that this important matter , close to the committee ' s heart , ought to be debated today .
what has surprised me slightly as rapporteur over the past few months is that we have somewhat lost sight of these three things .
without jeopardising the modernisation of all postal services and the opening to competition , member states must continue to preserve their rural network of counter services , which help bring the remote places closer to centres of decision making and are thus indispensable to the social cohesion of the smallest urban or rural communities .
there is no reason why the service offered to people should not incorporate all kinds of technical and economic progress , and i believe that , from this point of view , doing away with special services is a step for which no clarification had first been provided .
i am sorry , mr ferber , i am concerned about job losses and the effect they will have .
it would be more in keeping with citizens ' expectations to restore the balance where public services are concerned by making any new extension to the commercial sphere conditional upon respect for the fundamental objective of the sustainable development of european society .
private operators will also be able to deliver letters at four times the price of a normal letter .
in fact , it provides for minimal subsequent opening-up of the market and provides absolutely no certainty regarding future steps while , as far as the universal service is concerned , the swedish example should reassure all those who feel that privatisation will mean the end of the postal services .
in the capacity of rapporteur of the general interest services for our committee , there is no doubt that we will need to cast a critical eye over these developments .
according to my spanish colleagues - and i would like to check this out with the commissioner - spain has transposed the 1997 directive in its entirety , others have not done anything , and those who have not done anything would now like to take huge steps to make up the difference .
for example , in the present case , a country with a much lower than average ratio will obviously not have any problems , while a country with a much higher ratio will despair if it has to liberalise cross-border postal services as mr bolkestein proposes .
we in this house must give the postal market a chance .
madam president , the public monopoly for postal services was introduced in the nineteenth century for a very good reason .
from the spanish experience , which has been mentioned a few times , i believe that parliament ' s amendments improve on the commission ' s proposal because it introduces moderation - strict moderation - into the pace of opening up and liberalisation .
it is indeed a balanced compromise and i hope that it will be accepted by the council .
look where we are now , more than ten years later .
if we do too little , too late , the postal sector as a whole will be in danger .
our proposal strikes a careful balance , because universal service providers will need time to change the structures further , to become more flexible enterprises so they can adapt to new market conditions .
secondly , this whole matter will be discussed at a telecom council next friday .
we tried to arrive at a conciliation with the commission , but this did not really come about .
there has been liaison with the commission , and it was clear from the last meeting that the commission was maintaining its position , i.e. a quota system administered according to the ' first come , first served ' method and a transition to a ' tariff only ' system in 2006 .
in this regard , i would like to remind you that banana production is not alien to the community .
the wto is a set of rules .
we shall most probably be in a more powerful position then , and this should be reflected in the banana report and in the objectives we lay down .
each group of countries has been able to develop its production because we were offering them a market which we ought not now to take away from them .
i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development , mr graefe zu baringdorf , for his desire his reach a compromise solution with the commission .
this is deeply unfair .
mr president , may i express my thanks for the strong support i have received from all the groups .
( the president declared the common position approved as amended ) ( the sitting was suspended at 12 noon for a formal sitting and resumed at 12.30 p.m. )
the commission is prepared , on the other hand , to accept amendments nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 and 15 .
this has also met with the approval of the person who tabled the amendment .
. ( el ) unfortunately , although the commission accepted many of the european parliament 's amendments , the council did not .
under cover of legal arguments , a number of meps have actually been defending the tobacco industry .
we have no right to dictate to others what they do in their countries outside the eu , nor is it wise to export jobs from the eu to third countries where they will simply produce and sell the products and take over our existing markets .
mr president , i voted for the directive on takeover bids .
it cannot , therefore , be the objective of this parliament to undermine the european art market and in conciliation i hope now that the member states and commission will be able to maintain the common position .
for these reasons , the members representing the freedom alliance have decided not to endorse the report .
in general , the financial resources allocated to the stabilisation of this area are widely known to be insufficient .
the situation is alarming .
if , in that process , i can safeguard the interests of our acp countries then that is all to the good , but i believe that it is important that we safeguard and look to the welfare of european citizens .
i can also accept amendment no 28 , if a corresponding clause is added about the possibility of reducing the tariff .
in the view of the commission , the ten-year period to which amendments nos 11 and 13 refer would be too long .
eu / us summit
finally , we will , i am sure , touch on the recent decisions at nice on the european rapid reaction force .
the most important thing for us will be to consolidate , to examine very carefully the actual progress that has been made in the various programmes we have launched under the umbrella of the transatlantic agenda .
it is impossible to accept that the only solution to crime and violence is further crime and violence .
we should be delighted to incorporate in that analysis a review of the way that the various dialogues have been developing .
we should take that position vigorously , without thinking that to do so will somehow undermine our relationship with our greatest friends and allies .
secondly , the provision of digital products constitutes a provision of services rather than a delivery of goods .
faced with this situation , the commission ordered a study , which is the one we are investigating here , on what can be done .
in conclusion , let us say that we do not like to see the commission giving up completely on vat harmonisation at the beginning of its mandate , and parliament , understanding the need to extend the validity of the legislation in force , being left waiting for the commission , in the middle of its mandate and with the euro already in circulation , to present us with a new , full and thorough proposal on this matter .
as and when the train offers an equivalent alternative on an increasing number of routes , this alternative can be promoted .
however , on account of the wide range of vat rates , it will be necessary , as our rapporteur rightly proposes , to distribute vat revenue fairly among the member states by means of a clearing system .
a global view is required .
it would also create a much fairer situation between the different forms of transport .
i cannot , for instance , see why the introduction of the euro should require further or even any coordination of vat rates .
we are familiar with the vital statistics : with taxes and public charges accounting for more than 45 % of earned income , many of our member states have budget deficits , whereas the united states , where taxes and public charges account for less than 30 % of earned income , is achieving budget surpluses of several hundred billion dollars .
i would call upon the commission to rethink the proposal and to think of an alternative way .
that is precisely what we want to see for aircraft too .
furthermore , this proposal is in line , as i see it , with the principles agreed at ecofin , which in turn are in line with the agreed principles of the oecd conference in ottawa .
when air tickets are 42 % cheaper today than they were ten years ago , it is clear that the wrong price signals are being given out .
the public at large deserves better .
this topic has been given much attention ever since the commission introduced the proposal on 7 june of this year .
it is useful to have an objective and clear criterion at our disposal , namely the member state where the consumer lives .
this is a simplification measure which regulates the exchange of information between the member states on vat numbers in the electronic trade , and we will take the proposal to heart in our future work in parliament and the council .
as far as liability is concerned , we must take a very careful look at that .
with regard to the black box , it should be pointed out that the international maritime organisation has laid down an obligation of this type for ships using national routes as from july 2008 and we wish this date to be brought forward .
mr president , i should like in turn to thank mrs de palacio for her comments .
so is it acceptable that a vehicle may be stopped at the border of a neighbouring member state if they comply with all the legal requirements in their own country ?
they therefore do not contribute at all towards road infrastructure costs in britain and at the same time pay lower vehicles taxes at home .
so i repeat , we will pursue the issue with the palestinian authorities .
the merger regulation provides no legal basis to take allegations of human rights abuses into account and the commission therefore has no powers to investigate such alleged abuses in this context .
particular attention has been paid to the issue of employment .
it is true that the price of sugar in the european union is now three times higher than on the world market . this does indeed present a problem .
with regard to whether or not this is a tactical gesture designed to win the favour of least and less developed countries within the framework of a round of negotiations , i would point out straight away that this is not the case .
mr president , commissioner liikanen , this very night we shall be discussing the proposal for a council decision on european digital content .
a new article in the treaty provides for a possible increase in the powers of the european court in this sense .
what measures does the commission plan to take to ensure that member states which have not yet done so set up community trade mark courts ?
commissioner , i have to confess that you have not enlightened me , or rather you have not told me anything which i did not know already , because this accusation was laid at the commission 's door a year ago .
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply .
i should like to know what will be included under the heading of ' content ' .
there are no restrictions , as there were previously , to the supply of digital information .
the ppe-de group will endorse mrs gill 's suggestions , for which i thank her , and we too shall vote for an increased contribution , and i hope that our agreement with the liberals and the other groups will be honoured and that we shall make a really massive effort to ensure that these budgetary priorities actually receive the volume of additional funding that we have proposed .
the programme and the report are therefore very important and , in connection with these , i want to thank the commission and commissioner liikanen , as well as mrs gill .
we have to ensure that there is an environment conducive to these changes in europe .
the remaining 11 are not directly compatible with the objectives of this specific programme , or would stretch its mandate beyond what can be achieved with the financial means associated with it .
what i would like to say to the ppe-de group is that it should at least not stand in the way of tonight ' s discussions .
( referral back of the report to committee was rejected )
now that environmental noise has gone through the roof , increased mobility being one of the specific causes , the number of people facing this problem has also increased greatly .
the rapporteur has shown great creativity in bringing forward framework directives , daughter directives and noise maps to be made available to the public .
this directive contains a number of sound and important proposals : harmonisation , the use of common indicators and parameters , software and such like .
we will have to progress down that road but the present proposal by the rapporteur goes too far in that direction at the moment .
i would like to know what the bottom line actually was .
we will consider what these standards needs to be once we have the evidence from strategic noise maps .
the commission can accept amendments nos 1 to 3 , 14 , 18 , 27 , 30 , 34 , 35 and 43 .
i think that this would be of benefit to public health without causing any damage at all to industry .
secondly , where is the preparedness of industry to come forward and accept that some of the many additives we have can be struck off ?
official inspections in the field of animal nutrition
during the trialogue , it became clear that the council did not intend to shift from this position .
but how can guarantees be given if inspections have not taken place ?
the small town / village renewal programme is an integral part of rural development .
better knowledge and new technology provides the opportunity for a better environment in europe 's towns and cities .
it will enable and encourage towns and cities throughout europe and beyond to come together and learn from each other 's experiences , help them to tackle environmental problems and challenges and to work towards sustainability .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is certainly late for us to be tackling the celebrated precautionary principle .
prudence is called for in situations where the risks are known .
this proposes that a reversed burden of proof be applied regarding products with no prior approval , that is to say that producers must prove that the product is safe and not transfer the risks and the cost to consumers .
yet the way the european union itself uses it is both unclear and even irrational .
but there are more examples than mad cow disease alone , examples which are perhaps not as spectacular , but where it is just as important to make decisions .
the precautionary principle was also discussed at the nice summit , which took note of a resolution adopted by the general affairs council .
it is important to stress that it is for the decision-makers to define the level of protection .
it firmly condemns eta ' s crimes in spain and invites the institutions of the european union to adopt effective weapons to combat terrorism .
( loud and sustained applause )
but i do depend , of course , on the assistance of our services .
we shall restore your name as author of this amendment .
before the vote on amendment no 51
we are delighted that this has now been acknowledged .
according to his plan , luxembourg will continue to house no more than a handful of technical services such as the print shop and the translation service .
the budget for 2001 is largely based on a compromise between parliament , the council and the commission , which we support .
parliament is thus sending the commission a strong signal regarding its reservations on the total liberalisation of the postal market .
i do not feel that this is the right way to be spending the european union 's funds .
in the field of digital information , the linguistic vehicle holds a competitive advantage , a style of reasoning and a legal position that favour those in whose mother tongue it appears .
on the other hand , i hope that the intergovernmental conference announced for 2004 , which seems to me to be the only positive outcome of nice , will deal once and for all with the distribution of competences between the european union and the governments of the member states .
there was one positive aspect to the nice european council : by declaring a new weighting of votes and a new distribution of members of the european parliament that includes all of the candidate countries from the east , a powerful signal was given to these countries that we want to welcome them into the union soon .
despite a slight increase in the threshold for qualified majority voting , the scope of which remains to be seen , this extension is bound to mean that the gap will increase further still between the european institutions and national democracies .
a number of members of the european parliament argued in very strong terms for the agenda to be expanded .
we still have a few months to work on this until the end of 2003 in order to save the european project .
despite the successful efforts of the nice summit in this area , the resolution expresses dissatisfaction with the new extension of the scope of qualified majority .
in fact , no other summit has ever had to face the prospect of such a vast expansion as this .
no steps are being taken to make the eu more democratic or to increase the power of the national parliaments .
this approach should have our support , because the gap between developed and backward regions is far greater in terms of technological development than in terms of gross domestic product .
mr president , i should like to comment in a very favourable light on mr markov 's report and to congratulate him on putting such a constructive report before the house .
this very technology , on the other hand , presents them with a means of making up the leeway , provided that the economic players in the regions are capable of using innovative measures to grasp the opportunities available to them .
compared with the priority topics which were selected and which i wanted to present personally to the committee on regional policy on 11 september , i should like to remind you that these innovative measures are first and foremost a regional development instrument .
i must be content , as must you , with the funds provided in the berlin guidelines and the agenda 2000 package .
mr president , i would like to start by congratulating mr langen on the quality of his report .
as a result of this failure , a complaint by industry under the trade barrier regulation has been launched in october this year and commissioner lamy announced on 4 december the commission 's decision to open an investigation .
this would be proposed if a satisfactory agreement with korea cannot be achieved during the course of the investigation procedure under the trade barriers regulation .
he was a worker and , like those who accompanied us yesterday when we awarded the sakharov prize , he was a private citizen who served the democratic system which the spanish have chosen .
in both , we ask the commission to examine the possibilities contained in the current treaties to ascertain what opportunities it has to contribute to this issue .
she regrets that she cannot be here to answer the questions in person because she is engaged in meetings in brussels to prepare for next week 's important ministerial meeting on climate change .
maybe the incident is serious , maybe it is not .
for him it is cause for complaint , to us it is cause for satisfaction : that is the only difference between us .
there is no way that this situation can be treated as a bilateral affair between two member states which belong to a political union .
the interests of the people of gibraltar and southern spain are identical in this regard .
the real reason is not so much the anniversary as it is the un refugee organisation ' s current plight .
that is not enough , however : we must give our determined support to the unhcr , both in political and economic terms , to ensure there is a balance between the issues of predictability , flexibility and geographical location .
the new political leadership in serbia must act in such a way , and i would like to point this out , mr president , so that the former president and dictator milosevic , together with his partners in crime , can be brought before the international war crimes tribunal in the hague .
we either expect a clear amnesty law in the short term with specific details or , and preferably in combination with , a concrete date for the release of the political prisoners .
so much has changed since the autumn : the new authorities in belgrade have moved fast , for example to restore international contacts ; they have moved fast to enable the federal republic of yugoslavia to take its place at the united nations and , as well , to take its place in the osce .
and , on one occasion , general pinochet decided to come to europe and , as soon as he set foot here , the european judicial authorities set out to ensure that general pinochet took responsibility for his actions .
the peaceful and democratic pursuit of political ends is not just a means to an end ; it is intrinsic in any worthwhile end itself .
so long as this situation prevails the country cannot be considered for membership negotiations with the european union .
at least 1 000 people are still imprisoned for the sake of their views .
( the president cut the speaker off )
let us hope that they will have the courage to take it up and we shall spare no effort in helping them do so .
mr president , i wish to follow the example of mr wurtz and formally withdraw our motion for a resolution as well .
i sense that we are going to have a whole new debate on the issue .
indeed , as we are aware , health does not last forever .
it is set against the background of the ' international year of older persons ' , as proclaimed by the un , and it is also very important that attention has been focused in various places on how the situation of the elderly will develop in the future , for example , in the countries of the european union .
those were the exception to the rule , for the large majority of people died at a relatively young age due to adverse conditions .
in this area of policy , european institutions hardly have any authority .
people need each other ' s care and attention ; they rely on each other .
the years go by : our work causes us to fall ill , we pay pension contributions and national insurance contributions ; we pay rates and taxes .
anyone who is satisfied with the average will never embark on the adventure of a committed life .
it is crucial that we develop concrete policies and specific programmes for the various categories of elderly people .
we are certainly facing tremendous challenges .
( laughter and applause )
it would therefore be appropriate to set as the date of entry into force of the regulation the date of adoption of the implementing regulation , so as not to lose the appropriations available in 2001 .
firstly , it should be pointed out how good agricultural products , such as fruit , milk etc. are for you .
we want to stay healthy , and food is the overall basis for healthy living .
or what about when people say that we have a shortage of protein ?
spending under the last programme actually fell between 1997 and 1998 .
mr mulder is right when he said that the common agriculture policy is designed not only for food but also for the social objective of keeping the maximum number of people in rural areas .
because it is actually true that it is certainly necessary , but also right , to promote the european model of agriculture .
i find this really quite dreadful : it contradicts the letter of the treaty , and i hope that it will not happen .
